russian troops seize chechen capital 
russian troops today seized the chechen capital grozny and have fully kept the city under their control , the press service of the russian government announced this night . 
it said : " by the end of the day , the situation in grozny has been fully controlled by federal troops . " 
palestinian - israeli liaison committee to hold meeting tuesday 
the palestinian - israeli liaison committee is to hold a meeting tuesday here to discuss means to implement the remaining items of the palestinian - israeli peace agreement . 
palestinian ambassador here zuhdi al qedra said that the issue of the palestinian detainees held in israeli jails , the security corridor between gaza and jericho as well as the airport , port and the goods passage linking up egypt to gaza and jordan to jericho will be the major items on the agenda . 
egypt 's middle east news agency reported today that the palestinian side to the meeting will be led by nabil shaath , minister of planning and international cooperation of the palestinian national authority , and the israeli side by foreign minister shimon peres . 
the palestinian ambassador added that the committee will also review the israeli expansion in the settlements policy . 
he stressed all the steps taken by the israelis in jerusalem and the building of new settlements near jerusalem are regarded as hindrances in the way of pushing forward the peace process . 
the palestinian official urged israel to abide by the palestinian - israeli agreement signed in cairo on $date . 
he also asked the u.s. and russia , the co - sponsors of the middle east peace process , to exert more efforts for helping implementation of the plo - israeli declaration of principles . 
thatcher backs uk tory rebels : lord tebbit 
the divisions within the british conservative party have been further deepened when lord tebbit , former tory chairman , said that former prime minister margaret thatcher and tebbit himself fully support the tory rebels who last the conservative whip last $date . 
according to a report in the sunday telegraph , this move taken by lord tebbit will dismay prime minister john major and leading members of the tory central office , who have recently time and again called for unity of the whole party . 
on $date last year , eight tory euro - sceptics refused to vote for the government financial bill on budget contribution increase to the european union . 
they were immediately expelled out of the tory parliamentary group and afterwards another euro - sceptic automatically resigned from the tory whip and joined the rank of the eight . 
john major has repeatedly appealed for unity of his party as a means to win a $number general election . 
in his new year message to local party chiefs , major said : " there is one issue above all others which threatens to destroy our party from within - - europe . " 
" disunited , our beliefs are weakened , our principles are dented , " he warned . 
however , lord tebbit further offered to visit the constituencies of the nine rebels to give his support . 
he made it clear that despite maintaining a public silence on the government financial bill on the eu budget contribution , thatcher shared his view in supporting the nine rebels . 
rafsanjani meets with qatari foreign minister 
iranian president hashemi rafsanjani today received visiting qatari foreign minister sheikh hamad bin jaber al - thani , stressing the need for friendly relations and cooperation among regional countries . 
rafsanjani termed the relations between iran and qatar as a " good model " for the persian gulf regional countries to expand relations with iran , the state - run television reported tonight . 
the qatari foreign minister arrived here this morning to submit a message from the qatari emir sheikh hamad bin khalifa al - thani to rafsanjani and review with iranian officials the bilateral ties and extensive cooperation , including the water conveying project between the two countries . 
rafsanjani said the joint projects and bilateral cooperation between iran and qatar have special importance , announcing iran 's readiness to convey drinking water to qatar and cooperate with qatar in gas and other fields . 
the qatari foreign minister voiced his country 's willingness to expand relations with iran and expressed hope that the two countries can exchange their experience and technology . 
during $number round of talks with his iranian counterpart ali akbar velayati this morning , sheikh hamad said his country is greatly interested in comprehensive cooperation with iran . 
velayati said one of the main economic projects between the two countries is the project to convey water from iran to qatar . 
this issue has been agreed upon since a long time ago , adding that " we hope the two sides would be able to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the executive work of the project would begin . " 
referring to the bilateral relations , velayati expressed hope that the bilateral talks in the political and economic areas would be another effective step in the direction of expansion of mutual cooperation in the region . 
ira 's stockpile of mortars destroyed 
the irish government and the irish republican army (ira) reached a secret deal recently and destroyed an ira stockpile of mortars which supplied the bombs in attacks on heathrow airport last spring , according to a report in the mail on sunday . 
the weapons were " decommissioned " last week in a controlled explosion under the supervision of irish army bomb disposal experts , the report said . 
a consignment of semtex explosive was also recovered in a search by irish police after receiving information officially passed on by senior members of the ira , it added . 
this action is seen by the irish and british police as a preliminary to the ira formally laying down their arms under the new peace agreement . 
it is observed here that this action will bring a very good factor into $number round of talks between ira 's political wing sinn fein and british officials , which will be held in a fortnight . 
iran , bahrain to further promote cooperations 
iran foreign minister ali akbar velayati and his qatari counterpart sheikh hamad bin jaber al - thani held talks here today on bilateral ties and extensive cooperation , including the water conveying project between the two countries . 
the qatari minister said his country is greatly interested in comprehensive cooperation with iran , hoping that as a result of their talks and the two countries ' determination the cooperation between qatar and iran will become practical . 
he called his trip a good opportunity for talks on conveying water from iran to qatar . 
the qatari foreign minister arrived here this morning to sent a message from qatari emir sheikh khalifa bin hamad al - thani to iranian president hashemi rafsanjani and hold talks with iranian officials on further cooperation between the two countries . 
however , the contents of the message has not been revealed . 
the minister , who is accompanied by the qatari water and electricity minister , is going to have talks with iranian officials on subjects of mutual interest and regional affairs . 
velayati said the relations between iran and its neighboring arab countries in the persian gulf region , especially with countries such as qatar , are comprehensive with the expansion of political and economic relations . 
" one of the main economic projects between the two countries is the project to convey water from iran to qatar . 
this issue has been agreed upon since a long time ago , " he added . 
in other words , he said , $number principles have been agreed upon . 
the design is almost completed . 
there are some detailed talks to be held . 
" we hope the two sides would be able to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the executive work of the project would begin , " he said . 
he said that the project will definitely have important economic and political consequences not only for iran and qatar but for the rest of the regional countries . 
new york crime falls , but people don 't feel safer 
crime in new york city is dropping fast , the latest police statistics show , but criminologists cannot give a single explanation . 
murders , which had been falling gradually over the previous three years , dropped sharply , by nearly a $number , $date . 
over all , $number fewer people were slain $date than in the year before , and $number fewer than $date , when murders , many of them fueled by the crack epidemic , reached a peak . 
according to the police statistics , shooting dropped by $number percent , and virtually every type of reported felony declined in frequency last year , with auto theft , grand larceny , burglary and robbery all dropping by better than $number percent . 
however , violent crime remains a constant menace of city life . 
the nearly $number homicides that were committed $date are still about four times the $number killings that growing number of crimes are vicious and often random acts of violence have raised fear to a level that statistics cannot overcome . 
the changes , which are mirrored in many cities across the country , have mystified criminologists . 
they offer a number of theories , from intensified police efforts to demographic shifts to a growing number of criminals behind bars , but no single explanation for the phenomenon . 
the new york times today quoted joan mccord , a criminology professor , as saying , " it 's possible it is due to a fluctuation in the age of the population , with fewer people in the crime - committing ages of $number . " 
" it 's possible that the increasing concern people are showing about crime is helping to define better values as people speak more loudly on the issue , " mccord added . 
" as far as advances in policing go , there are so many experiments around the country that it 's hard to tell which ones are effective . " 
although the crime statistics are dropping , new yorkers are not feeling really safer . 
a new york times and cbs news poll found that about two - thirds of new york city residents thought crime was as bad as ever or growing worse . 
some sociologists and criminologists say many people 's fears stem less from the numbers of crimes committed than from the types of crimes and their viciousness - - especially those committed by teen - agers . 
in fact , experts note that while crimes committed by people over the age of $number are plunging , teen - age crime remains high . and those crimes are typically more unpredictable and spontaneous than those committed by older criminals . 
ethiopians demonstrate support for constitution 
$number $number ethiopians staged a demonstration here today to express their support for the newly adopted constitution of the country . 
adopted last $date , the constitution is to function as the basic law of the country as soon as a legal government is elected to replace the current transitional government . 
about half $number ethiopians were reported to attend the demonstration , during which they repeatedly chanted + we shall stand guard for our constitution + . 
chairman tefera walewa of addis ababa region told the rally + nations and nationalities cannot be united outside their desire and a lasting unity could be witnessed whenever their desire is for it . + 
since the new constitution was drafted last year , ethiopian opposition groups have been opposing it , criticising the clauses concerning the right to secession as leading to disintegration of ethiopia . 
the chairman also urged the oppositions to participate in the forthcoming general elections due to take place in $number half of this year . 
the ethiopian opposition groups have announced boycott to the elections . 
jordanian premier meets with british mp 
jordanian prime minister abdul salam majali today met visiting member of the british house of commons griffel jenness . 
they discussed during the meeting the latest developments of the middle east peace process in general and the jordanian - israeli track in particular . 
the jordanian prime minister expressed optimism about the prospects of activating the peace negotiations on the syrian and lebanese tracks and the fulfillment of the jordanian - israeli treaty . 
he expressed hope that the jordanian and israeli sides would succeed in attaining the cherished peace objectives , which would positively reflect on the region as a whole . 
majali further stated that a just peace could only be achieved when it becomes comprehensive . 
he called upon western nations to carry out their pledged economic assistance to jordan , including the writing off of jordan 's debts and rescheduling of the remaining part of debts so that jordan could meet the requirements of the era of peace . 
on his part , the british member of house of commons asserted that his country would spare no effort to consolidate the peace process and contribute to its success whether on the jordanian - israeli track or in bolstering up the palestinian self - rule , and on each of the syrian and lebanese tracks with israel . 
the british parliamentarian arrived in amman saturday on a visit to jordan as one leg of his regional tour . 
qatar urges israel to stop construction of settlement 
a qatari foreign ministry official underlined today the necessity of suspending the construction work of a new israeli settlement in the occupied arab territories . 
in an interview with the qatar news agency published today , the official said , " the construction of the israeli settlement is illegal and constitutes a new obstacle to the achieving of an overall , fair and lasting peace in the region . " 
the official said qatar is greatly worried about the effects of the israeli move on the middle east peace process and calls for suspending immediately the construction of the settlement in the occupied territories so as to maintain the continuation of the peace process . 
in $date last year , qatari foreign minister sheikh hamad bin jassem bin jabar al thani announced that his country would study the israel 's offer for the two states to open liaison offices in each other 's capital . 
the minister added that the normalization of relations with israel would do no harm to the gulf cooperation council (gcc) states . 
some gulf arab states have started making direct or indirect contacts with israel to develop bilateral ties and cooperation with israel in the oil industry . 
israeli prime minister yitzhak rabin visit oman last week and had talks with sultan qaboos bin said on regional issues of mutual interest as well as bilateral ties between the two countries . 
however , a new idea came into existence in the wake of the tripartite arab summit by egyptian president hosni mubarak , syrian president hafez al - assad and saudi arabia 's king fahd held in the egyptian port city of alexandria on $date . 
the idea is about delaying setting up any arab - israeli joint ventures and postponing the normalization of arab relations with israel until the syrian - israeli and lebanese - israeli peace negotiations come to a satisfactory end and some progress is secured on the palestinian - israeli track . 
some political observers here believe that this new development may cause some of the gulf arab states not to be too hasty in establishing diplomatic or economic ties with israel . 
oau urged to save strife - torn somalia 
u. n. special envoy to somalia james victor gbeho said today the organization of african unity (oau) should press the united nations to extend its mandate on somalia , according to a report from mogadishu , capital of somalia . 
gbeho told zimbabwean journalists that the u. n. withdrawal from the horn of africa country should be extended beyond the $date deadline . 
+ one hopes that the oau will make one last ditch effort to put pressure on the security council and u. n. secretary - general to make arrangements to assist somalia after the withdrawal , + he said . 
he noted that the withdrawal would set a complicated precedence because it would be $number time in the history of the united nations that it would abandon a mission before achieving its objectives . 
the pullout could be conceived as abandonment by other african countries who in future might be unwilling to participate in similar missions . 
+ i am not sure that their ( u. n. ) reasons for withdrawing will be totally acceptable to the african countries , + said gbeho who feared the withdrawal could result in the country being turned into a + battleground for ambitious western powers . + 
zimbabwe 's reforms to gain 
zimbabwe is one of the few countries in sub - saharan africa to register modest economic gains from market reforms , the international finance corporation (ifc) said today . 
in its annual report for $number released to the zimbabwe inter - africa news agency , the ifc said despite the declining economic performance in africa , some countries are making bold steps to reform their ailing economies and improve the living standards of the poor . 
" some countries - - madagascaar , mozambique , zimbabwe , for example - - are also attempting to move from centrally controlled economies to market - based ones , and economic improvement is anticipated as reforms go forward , " the ifc said . 
zimbabwe started its economic reforms $date with the support of the world bank , the international monetary fund and other western donors . 
the ifc said sub - saharan africa is still dependent on commodity exports , whose prices are highly volatile . 
because economic growth has barely exceeded population growth , africans are today almost as poor as they were three decades ago , the ifc said . 
british mass murder suspect found hanged in prison 
the man acused of killing $number women in one of the british most notorious mass - murder case was found hanged in his jail cell on sunday , the prison authorities announced . 
frederick west , $number , was found dead at winson green prison in the central english town of birmingham . 
west and his wife wosemary were jointly charged with nine counts of murder and were believed to be responsible for other deaths after remains of young women and girls were found at their former home in gloucester . 
west 's home was nicknamed by newspapers as " house of horror " and the reports of discovery of women 's remains one after another became so terrifying that the police had to demand for toning down the press coverage . 
the alleged victims of the couple include their daughter heather , who was $number when she disappeared in $date . 
west was also charged with murders of his $number wife catherine , $number , their daughter charmine , eight , and the family nanny anne mcfall , $number . 
their remains were found in west 's former home and a nearby field . 
west has been in custody since $date last year . 
in $date he won a temporary order from the high court stopping his former lawyer publishing any information about his case . 
the couple last appeared in court on $date and the next appearance was due in $date . 
gold found on british royal estate , newspaper 
gold and other precious metals were said to be found on queen elizabeth 's scottish estate by geologists , british newspaper news of the world said today . 
geological survey was being carried out at the queen 's balmoral estate in scotland and prince charles showed great enthusiasm by joining prospectors in the hunt , the paper said . 
" balmoral has great potential . 
the prince of wales ( charles ) is extremely keen , " the newspaper quoted geologist david stephenson as saying . 
" i am not saying we have found gold right under balmoral castle - - but we have found it on the estate in several locations , " stephenson said . 
the discovery , if proved to be true , could be $number potentially valuable mine on a royal residence , $number was recently spotted in windsor castle , where the queen had officially approved drilling oil on the estate 's ground . 
however , any royalties from commercial mining would go into the government , not the royal family , which had been already one of the richest in the world . 
ologists also found traces of silver , platinum , lead and tungsten at balmoral castle , the news of the world said . 
buckingham palace has not yet confirmed the report . 
news items from asia - pacific desk of xinhua 
following are news items from the asia - pacific desk of xinhua in hong kong today : hke010101 - - new year 's eve celebrated in hk hke010102 - - malaysian pm reminds countrymen of productivity hke010103 - - major news in pakistani press hka010104 - - politics main concern for $number in hk hka010105 - - radioactive gas four times safe levels in hk hke010106 - - un envoy postpones kabul tour for security reasons hke010107 - - major news in philippine newspapers hke010108 - - nepal postpones child - labor free program hke010109 - - more competitiveness in world market : thai pm hke010110 - - major news in indian newspapers hke010111 - - india not to slow down economic reforms hke010112 - - unrest threatens investment : thai senate speaker hke010113 - - nepal to step up education development hka010114 - - hk chinese commerce chamber holds new year reception hke010115 - - bangladeshi opposition to form liaison body hka010116 - - roundup : hong kong bourse bearish $date hke010117 - - roundup : manila hails $number with fireworks injuries hka010118 - - weather information for asian - pacific cities 
attorney - general : israel can stop building new neighborhood 
israeli attorney - general micha ben - yair has reportedly decided that the government can stop construction work on a new neighborhood south of bethlehem on the ground of public safety , israel radio said today . 
meanwhile , ben - yair also said that there remains some legal doubts over the issue . 
following ben - yair 's such opinion , the israeli cabinet will decide monday on the future of the neighborhood of efrat settlement south of bethlehem . 
last week , the cabinet decided to turn over the issue to a legal ruling by ben - yair . 
the cabinet has said that if the construction of the new neighborhood is ruled illegal , it will be halted . 
the construction of the new neighborhood has drawn strong criticism from the palestinians . 
palestinian villagers from the el - khader village claimed that the land belongs to them , while the efrat settlers ' leaders insisted that the land was purchased from the state of israel by a special foundation on behalf of $number private purchasers . 
the palestinian national authority led by plo chairman yasser arafat last week criticized the israeli government for the construction of the neighborhood , calling such expansion of settlement a " flagrant violation " of the oslo accord . 
however , the israeli housing ministry has determined that the land in question was purchased legally , israel radio said today . 
housing minister binyamin ben - eliezer said today that he supports the construction of the efrat new neighborhood , which in his words is justified . 
however , he promised to support any cabinet decision on the matter . 
also today , religious leaders of the efrat settlement said that the government 's any decision to stop the construction work on any grounds will be sending signals that israel is willing to return to the $number border . 
inflation rate up in uganda 
ugandan president yoweri museveni said here today that the inflation rate in uganda increased from $number percent in $date to $number percent in $date last year . 
museveni attributed the increase to price rises in some food items and the rapid depreciation of the uganda shilling against the kenya shilling . 
but he explained that the increase in inflation rate was not alarming and hoped that the objective of an annual inflation rate not exceeding $number percent would be achieved at the end of $number financial year . 
ugandan president on environment for constitution making 
ugandan president yoweri museveni stressed that his government of the national resistance movement (nrm) will not be diverted from its commitment to provide a suitable environment during the crucial period of the constitution making exercise from last year to the middle of this year . 
in his new year message to the nation , museveni emphasized here today the constitution is being made for posterity and cautioned that the political gains of the nrm should not cloud the vision of posterity in the country . 
he appealed to all those , both inside and outside the constituent assembly , who are taking certain positions on constitutional issues merely in order to look to the electorate in readiness for the $date presidential and parliamentary elections , to think of their children and grand children before mounting their populist platforms . 
museveni again made it clear that the ruling nrb has no constitution up its sleeve and will never have one . 
it should be clear to all , he declared that the new constitution will be promulgated and adopted in the constituent assembly and nowhere else . 
he said those issues that will not be resolved in the committees will be deliberated upon again , in the plenary sessions . 
he added that if necessary , they can be subjected to referenda so that the people can directly take the final decisions on issue which their representatives will not have resolved . 
museveni appealed to leaders in the constituent assembly and outside to explain to the people , the concepts such as federalism which are being discussed without real understanding , regrettably even by some of the leaders . 
he also appealed to the leaders in the constituent assembly to abandon the path of intimidation in the making of the new constitution . 
kim jong il inspects people 's army 
leader of the democratic people 's republic of korea (dprk) kim jong il inspected a unit of the people 's army this morning and extended new year 's greetings to the officers and men , according to the korean central news agency (kcna) . 
after being briefed on the combat capability of the unit , kim jong i1 made a tour of the barracks and educational facilities , delivered a speech and was photographed with the officers and men of unit $number , the news agency said . 
major news items in u.s. newspapers 
the following are major news items in leading u.s. newspapers today : the new york times : - - both sides in bosnia signed the agreement that will maintain a ceasefire for four months , improving the prospects for the end of the three - year - old war . 
- - russian troops stormed into the center of the capital of chechnya saturday , with bombing by helicopter gunships . 
the washington post : - - a quiet loner accused of killing two abortion clinic workers and wounding five other people in massachusetts friday was arrested in norfolk , virginia saturday after he reportedly tried to force his way inside another busy clinic and shot at it with a rifle . 
- - the white house search for a new cia director will focus initially on finding someone who has a personal relationship with clinton . 
- - court records show gun crimes rising among youths despite general decline , with juveniles prosecuted in the district of columbia are piling up gun charges at three times the rate of their adult counterparts and are arming themselves at twice the pace they did five years ago . 
- - russian president boris yeltsin this week was abandoned by his last remaining reformist allies , and many believe - - as russian troops fight their way into grozny , the chechen capital - - that the great experiment of russian democracy has entered its deepest crisis . 
majlis approves ban on satellite programs 
after several months of debate , iran 's majlis today finally approved the bill of banning satellite programs and presented it to the constitutional guardians council for final ratification . 
according to tehran radio today , the manufacturer and distributor of satellite equipment will be fined $number - $number rials ( about $number u.s. dollars ) along with the confiscation of all satellite equipment . 
the illegal user will be fined $number - $number rials ( about $number dollars ) and their satellite equipment confiscated and those who keep , install and repair the equipment will also be fined $number - $number rials ( about $number dollars ) with confiscation of equipment . 
according to the bill , state institutions which need to use satellite equipment should obtain special permission from the ministry of culture and islamic guidance and the ministry is required to guard the country 's " cultural borders against cultural invasion . " 
the bill was presented in may to the majlis , which started debates over its details in $date . 
earlier in $date , the majlis empowered the interior ministry to use the country 's security forces and basij ( mobilization ) forces to round up all satellite dishes illegally installed throughout the country . 
according to the bill , iranians should hand over their satellite dishes in one month after the bill is finally approved as a law by the guardians council , otherwise they will be punished , even sentenced to imprisonment . 
all satellite dishes and other equipment that are to be confiscated in the future will be used for the expansion of broadcasting services throughout the country . 
the satellite issue became a popular topic among the people and officials since iranian interior minister mohammad besharati announced last $date that the country would take measures against satellite programs . 
during the recent years , more and more satellite dishes were illegally installed across the country , although confiscation of the equipment by the country 's security forces continued unabated . 
russian troops control presidential palace in grozny : report 
russian troops took control of the presidential palace in the center of chechen capital grozny , which is the main headquarters of rebel chechen leader dzhokhar dudayev , the russian government press service said today . 
" federal troops took control of the presidential palace " and several important administrative buildings in grozny , as well as the main railway station and railway network , the service quoted a joint statement from the defense and interior ministries as saying . 
it was not immediately clear if dudayev was in the palace . 
the statement also said that chechen forces continued fierce resistance elsewhere in the capital . 
russian troops pushed into grozny on saturday , three weeks after moscow sent troops into its breakaway state to crush the mainly muslim region 's bid for independence . 
seedings in indonesia open tennis 
following are the top ten seeds in the $number u.s. dollar danamon indonesia open tennis tournament to be played at the senayan tennis center in jakarta from $date : 
$number . 
sabine hack , germany 
$number . 
yayuk basuki , indonesia 
$number . 
ann grossman , united states 
$number . 
florence labat , argentina 
$number . 
wang shi ting , chinese taipei 
$number . 
irina sprilea , romania 
$number . 
nana miyagi , japan 
$number . 
elena wagner , germany 
$number . 
beate reinstadler , austria 
$number . 
alexandra fusai , france 
guangdong beats hong kong in soccer contest 
the guangdong provincial team thrashed hong kong $number in the annual guangdong - hong kong soccer contest here on sunday . 
forward wang tao scored $number goal at the $number minute and fan zhiyi added $number three minutes before the last whistle . 
in the previous $number contests , guangdong won $number and hong kong took five . 
the contest is played in two legs and $number game will be played on $date in hong kong . 
granada - dakar rally begins 
granada - dakar auto rally began on sunday with a $number - kilometer time trial around the city of granada in south spain . 
about $number drivers in cars , trucks and motorcycles expect to reach dakar of senegal on $date after covering $number kilometers through spain , morocco , mauritania , guinea and senegal . 
the race is divided into $number legs . 
$date is the only rest day . 
the participants come from $number countries and regions , including japan , russia , italy , brazil and finland . 
eu membership benefits finland 's economy , ahtisaari says 
in a new year message to the nation today , finnish president martti ahtisaari said finland 's membership in the european union (eu) would promote the nation 's economic development . 
expansion of the eu will enhance european security and stability , he added . 
finland , together with sweden and austria , formally joined the eu today , bringing the number of member states in the european trade block to $number . 
membership in the eu can be expected to boost finnish exports to the region , thus spurring economic growth . 
world weather forecast for major foreign cities 
weather forecast for $number major foreign cities for the next $time $time on $date issued by china 's central meteorological station tonight : tokyo : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear . 
bangkok : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , cloudy . 
sydney : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear to cloudy . 
karachi : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear to cloudy . 
cairo : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear . 
moscow : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , sleet . 
frankfurt : min . $number degree c . , max.5 degrees c . , overcast . 
paris : min . $number degree c . , max . $number degrees c . , cloudy . 
london : min . $number degrees c . , max.3 degree c . , clear . 
new york : min.-4 degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , drizzle to light snow . 
retail sales boom in anhui 's rural market 
peasant farmers in east china 's anhui province have earned more cash to buy goods last year despite severe dry spells that occurred during the summer . 
their income averaged $number yuan last year , up $number percent from the figure for the previous year , provincial statistics showed . 
retails sales of consumer goods in rural areas of anhui witnessed a $number - percent increase in the $date period of last year compared with the same period of $number . 
the sales of color t. v. sets alone had surged by $number percent . 
$date , anhui suffered from the most serious drought in the past $number years since the founding of new china $date , which inundated large tracts of farmland and led to a decrease in the output of farm produce . 
however . governments at all levels in anhui implemented , in a down - to - earth manner , the central government 's relevant policies on purchase of agricultural and sideline produce and banned the issuing of iou to local farmers . 
meanwhile , anhui farmers have had obtained more income from township - run industries and other businesses . 
shanghai 's $number revenue up 
china 's largest economic center shanghai recorded a revenue of $number yuan $date , up $number percent over the previous year , zhou youdao , director of shanghai municipal bureau of finance , announced here today . 
according to the new tax assignment system based on a rational division of power between central and local authorities , the city 's local revenue amounted to $number yuan $date , overfulfilling the budgetary plan . 
shanghai has timely fulfilled the quota set by the central government , and turned over sufficient taxes to it , the director said . 
zhou attributed the good result to the reform of taxation system over the past year , which aroused the initiative of localities , to the improvement of economic efficiency and to the adjustment of economic structure . 
raw material prices rose world - wide $date 
the prices of raw materials rose world - wide $date , especially those of coffee , copper , nickel , zinc , tin , lead , aluminium and rubber , according to local press reports . 
the price of coffee more than doubled - - from $number u.s. dollars a ton in $date to $number dollars in $date . 
nickle , which was selling for $number u.s. dollars a ton a year ago , cost $number this past $date . 
the healthy state of the world raw material market was attributed to growth in the economies of the united states , the western european nations and other industrialized countries , as well as the rapid development of the economies of asian countries . 
vietnam urges u.s. to grant most - favored nation status 
vietnamese foreign minister nguyen manh cam today urged the united states to grant vietnam most - favored nation status as soon as possible to promote bilateral trade relations . 
since u.s. president bill clinton lifted the $number - year - old embargo on vietnam last $date , relations between the two countries have improved , leading to increased economic and trade relations . 
nguyen said in an article published here today that both countries " are in the process of setting up liaison offices in each other 's capital . " 
both sides , he said , " should strive to remove all obstacles and pave the way for a more rapid development of bilateral relations . " 
trade between the two countries began to pick up last year , as did u.s. investment in vietnam . 
according to vietnamese government statistics , u.s. companies have invested a total of $number dollars in $number projects in vietnam . 
the u.s. ranks $number among the countries and regions that have invested in vietnam . 
shanghai 's hongqiao airport operates smoothly 
as of saturday , shanghai 's hongqiao airport has performed safe operation for some $number consecutive days , setting a record in the country . 
an independent enterprise , the airport opened to service $date . 
it has safely transported $number passengers and $number tons of cargo , mails and luggages , and accommodated $number planes , ranking $number among airports across the country in term of passenger flow . 
since its opening to service , the airport has adhered to giving the priority to safety , an airport official said . 
the airport security department has ferreted out $number cases involving in using false and out - of - date identity cards . 
no hijacking , fire , explosion or crash at the airport has been reported so far . 
at present , the airport has opened air service to $number cities both at home and overseas , and it handles $number flights daily . 
jiangsu makes headway in reforming old - age insurance system 
east china 's jiangsu province has made progress in reforming the old - age pension system in government departments and state institutions . 
according to officials , eight of the $number cities directly administered by the provincial government , and $number of the province 's $number counties and county - level cities have worked out reform schemes for old - age pensions and have started implementing the measures . 
some $number workers from $number government departments and institutions have taken out old - age insurance policies , accounting for $number of the province 's total number of employees in government departments and institutions . 
for a long time , china had had an old - age pension system which took care of every need of retired workers but proved to be a big burden for the state . 
china experienced such fast economic development after the adoption of reform measures and the opening up drive $date , that the " iron rice - bowl " was soon smashed . 
under the current campaign of building a socialist market economy , many state institutions are shifting to an enterprise management mode so as to participate in competition in the marketplace more easily , making it especially difficult in an institution where retired workers outnumber on - the - job workers to guarantee a salary for retirees . 
the introduction of an old - age social pension insurance system has helped divide the obligation toward retired workers into three parts - - the state , the institutions concerned , and the individuals , all of whom share the obligation after retirement . 
under the new system , individual employees pay in one to $number of their salary as insurance , and their work units and the state will also deposit a certain amount of money to the fund . 
practice has shown that the financial burden on the state is reduced under the new reform scheme , and institutions can be market - oriented in a more flexible way , and more importantly , the welfare of retired workers is guaranteed , said local officials . 
the officials added that they would work harder to cover all urban areas and more rural areas of the province with the new pension insurance system in the near future . 
xiamen international airport co . ( group ) ltd . established 
xiamen international airport co . 
( group ) ltd . , $number of its kind in china after shenzhen airport , was established today in xiamen , a coastal city in east china 's fujian province . 
the airport group was based on xiamen 's gaoqi international airport , which was completed and went into air service $date and relegated to the local government . 
over the past $number years , the transportation volume handled by the airport has been growing at $number percent annually . 
by now , $number airlines are operating in the airport flying along $number domestic air routes and six international air routes with nearly $number flights each week . 
$date , nearly $number passengers traveled through the airport , which also handled nearly $number tons of cargo and mails with an income of $number yuan . 
at present , the airport , whose business has been expanded from aviation to food , real estate , cargo transportation and advertising , is busy with $number - phase expansion program with an investment of $number yuan . 
major news items in cairo press 
the following are major news items in leading egyptian newspapers today . 
al - ahram : - - egyptian prime minister atef sedki said in a report to the people 's assembly that the government has laid the foundation of economic stability . 
- - u.s. defense secretary william perry is due in cairo saturday on a two - day visit to egypt . 
al - gomhuria : - - president hosni mubarak exchanged new year greetings with world leaders . 
- - prime minister atef sedki stressed egypt 's interest in restoring arab solidarity and in pursuing its endeavors for achieving a comprehensive and just peace in the middle east and for supporting the new - born palestinian entity . 
al - akhbar : - - foreign minister amr moussa met with arab league secretary general esmat abdul - meguid and discussed with him the outcome of the alexandria tripartite summit . 
- - libyan leader muammar gaddafi is to pay a visit to egypt this month . 
china folklore ' $number unveiled to tourists 
china folklore ' $number was unveiled here on the new year 's day , in a bid to promote hot spots of tourism to overseas as well as domestic travelers . 
" in spite of severe cold in the depth of winter , we are here to raising the curtain of china folklore ' $number , " said liu yi , director of the china national tourism administration , told a gathering of nearly $number tourists from $number countries and regions at the china ethnic park in the north of beijing . 
vice - premier qian qichen and vice - chairperson of the standing committee of the national people 's congress chen muhua cut the ribbon at today 's opening ceremony . 
the folklore tourism is $number event china has offered , following the tourism topics involving landscape and historic relics the country had presented $date and $number . 
liu noted that china has become one of the important tourism destinations in the world and its tourism industry flourished over the past years " like the rising sun . " 
$date , he said , the number of the people who had entered china , the organized overseas tourists and domestic tourists were estimated at $number , $number and $number respectively , bringing the total revenue for both international and domestic tourism to $number yuan ( $number u.s. dollars ) . 
this year , china is expected to have the arrival of $number tourists from overseas and a $number percent increase in total tourism revenues , he added . 
china will improve management , security and quality of tourism services to make china folklore ' $number a success and to prepare for visit china ' $number , liu said . 
by that year , china will become one of the advanced tourism nations in the world with foreign currency revenue of its tourism industry expected to top the $number u.s. dol1ar mark . 
israel confirms u.s. - syrian - israeli meeting in washington 
israel 's chief of general staff ehud barak and his syrian counterpart hikmat shehabi met with president bill clinton during their recent talks in washington , diplomatic sources were quoted as saying . 
during their $number - minute meeting , clinton emphasized the importance of the peace talks and expressed concern over the lack of progress in syrian - israeli negotiations , according to a report in saturday 's new york times . 
clinton reportedly told barak and shehabi that time has come to seriously examine whether an agreement can be reached on security arrangements in the framework of a total israeli withdrawal from the golan heights " to the borders of $date . " 
the sources were quoted by israel radio as saying saturday night that barak and shehabi were invited to the white house on $date , apparently at the initiative of secretary of state warren christopher , who attended part of their meeting . 
barak retired as chief of general staff today and was replaced by his deputy amnon shahak . 
meanwhile , a senior defense official confirmed saturday that barak will head at least the next round of military talks with syria . 
a date has not yet been set for the talks , which are to take place in washington anyway . 
the official added that , if the military talks become the more effective channel of dialogue , prime minister yitzhak rabin would offer barak to head them on a permanent basis . 
according to the times , the syrian and israeli negotiators in washington have not bridged gaps on security guarantees , but have made progress in other areas , including a timetable for an israeli withdrawal from the golan heights and the establishment of diplomatic relations . 
secret high - level syrian - israeli talks have been going on for six months in washington under american auspices , according to the times . enditem $number / $number $time gmt = $number $number / $number $time gmt nnnn 
zhejiang redoubles efforts to afforest 
forest coverage in east china 's zhejiang province has reached $number percent , ranking it $number in the country , thanks to years of efforts in upgrading local forests . 
the province has hit the target of " covering barren hills with trees " one year ahead of schedule , bringing with it an annual increase of $number cu m of timber . 
statistics show that it has improved and planted $number ha of forests over the past decade , involving $number trees . 
timber storage in the province now stands at $number cu m . 
the provincial government launched a forestry fund program to encourage afforestation $date , bringing an annual investment of $number yuan for forest projects . 
local officials also attibuted the forest boom to the promulgation of a dozen of regulations on forests . 
they said these regulations have protected local forest reserves and provided an impetus to their further development . 
sichuan reaps fruits from key projects construction 
sichuan , china 's most populous province in the southwest , has achieved great successes in building key projects since $number five - year plan ( $number ) started $date . 
according to local officials , some $number key construction projects , ranging from reservoirs to expressways , involving a total of $number yuan , have been completed . 
foreign funds totalling $number u. s dollars have been introduced for these projects , covering $number percent of the total investment . 
at the same time , the province has adopted a new policy to invite public bidding for key projects so as to guarantee the quality of construction . 
the completion of the kaizhong reservoir and the wudu irrigation system has increased the area of irrigated farmland in the province by $number ha . 
two fertilizer factories , producing $number tons of phosphorus fertilizer , $number tons of synthetic ammonia and $number tons of carbamide , have also been completed . 
electrification work on the dacheng railway ( from the daxian county seat to chengdu city ) and the chengkun railway ( from chengdu to kunming , the capital of southwest china 's yunnan province ) , and the double tracking of the baocheng railway ( from baoji city , shaanxi province , to chengdu ) , is under way . 
the expressway linking chengdu with chongqing , the largest city in the province , was completed recently . 
a digital program - controlled telephone network connects $number major cities and $number counties in the province . 
also , the jiangyou power plant and the kaixian county power plant have been constructed , increasing the amount of electricity available in sichuan by $number kw . 
the three gorges dam , which is the largest hydroelectric power project in the world , has also started . 
yunnan grain production hits record high 
yunnan province in southwest china produced $number tons of grain $date , an all - time record high or an increase of $number tons as compared with the previous year . 
to stabilize grain production , many localities signed grain production contracts with farmers at the beginning of the year and shared the risks in such production . 
meanwhile , $number technicians have been sent to help farmers with their practical problems in production and supply them with plastic sheetings , pesticides , fine seeds and chemical fertilizer which are badly needed by farmers . 
as a result , grain sown areas increased by $number hectares last year , which added $number tons of grain for the province . 
meanwhile , the spread of farming technology also helped boost grain production . 
about $number kilograms of grain has been increased in each hectare of sown area and a total of $number tons of grain is the result of increase in per unit output . 
china 's largest oilfield achieves further output increase 
the daqing oilfield , china 's largest , produced $number tons of crude oil $date , an increase of $number tons over that of the previous year or the $number straight years for oil production growth . 
by now , the oilfield has produced nearly $number tons of crude oil since it was developed some $number years ago . 
however , according to authoritative sources here , the oilfield 's comprehensive water - bearing rate has approached $number percent and $number of the exploitable reserves have been tapped , 
to tap the potentials , the oilfield has worked out a set of advanced oil exploiting technology and maintained the high output momentum until now . 
at present , the oilfield is striving to keep its annual production at $number tons to the end of the century . 
$number mini arab summit to convene next month 
a $number mini arab summit involving saudi arabia , egypt and syria will be held in $number week of $date in saudi arabia , the local newspaper al - ittihad said today quoting an egyptian foreign ministry spokesman . 
the mini summit will be preceded by a meeting of foreign ministers of the three countries to be held in either saudi arabia or syria in $number half of this month with the aim of coordinating the efforts aimed at restoring arab solidarity , the spokesman was quoted as saying . 
$number such meeting was held at the end of last month in the egyptian mediterranean city of alexandria . 
a joint statement issued at the end of the summit supports syria 's stand in negotiations with israel and calls for arab reconciliation . 
the three countries have started making contacts with some other arab states and the u.s. to try to carry out the statement adopted by the summit aimed at clearing the arab atmosphere and pushing forward arab peace negotiations with israel , the paper added . 
an egyptian foreign ministry source told " al - ittihad " that the foreign ministers of saudi arabia , egypt and syria have agreed - - on directives from their heads of state - - to draft a detailed three - month arab program of action . 
" al - ittihad " pointed out that special envoys of the three countries ' heads of state would also convey messages to other arab heads of state for the same purpose before $number tripartite arab summit is convened in saudi arabia . 
the paper said arab league secretary general esmat abdul - meguid will attend $number summit and brief leaders of the three states on the outcome of a tour he is going to make through both the gulf cooperation council and the arab maghreb union states as of monday . 
he will also make contacts with iraq in order to persuade it to comply with related u. n. security council resolutions on kuwait and brief the summit on the results of the contacts . 
" al - ittihad " said the arab league secretary general and the foreign ministers of saudi arabia , egypt and syria will adopt , during their upcoming tours of a number of arab capitals , a new strategy intended to support the arab parties to the middle east peace process , to persuade arab states to delay the idea of setting up any joint ventures with israel or normalizing diplomatic relations with it until the syrian - israeli and lebanese - israeli peace negotiations end and until further progress is made on the palestinian - israeli track of the peace talks . 
beijing reports further revenue increase 
beijing reported further increase in local revenue $date at new year 's day , which registered the $number straight years for such growth . 
according to municipal sources , the chinese capital city turned out $number yuan in local revenue $date , up $number percent from the previous year . 
last year , the city achieved steady , fast and healthy development in local economy with many reform measures being implemented . 
local government 's work to save money and cut off expenses are also considered reasons of such increase , the sources said . 
hk chinese commerce chamber holds new year reception 
the chinese general chamber of commerce in hong kong today called on its members to contribute to hong kong 's prosperity and stability in the transition period . 
addressing a new year reception here today , ip yeuk lam , vice - president of the chamber , said that with the approaching of the day when hong kong returns to the motherland , the chamber will assume greater responsibilities in hong kong 's transition . 
he urged members of the chamber to enhance ties and exchanges between hong kong and the mainland so as to push ahead the economy in both places . 
in the next two years , the chinese general chamber of commerce will set up offices in beijing , shanghai , guangzhou and other major cities on the mainland . 
the chamber will continue to train business personnel for chinese provinces , regions and municipalities and let more people on the mainland know hong kong 's economic system and practices . 
he noted that the chamber would unite all its members to play an active role in various fields in hong kong for the benefit of the smooth transition of hong kong . 
he said that the chamber will also expand economic ties with overseas chinese businessmen in the world and join them in support of china 's economic development . 
weather forecast for major chinese cities 
weather forecast for $number major chinese cities for the next $time $time on $date issued by china 's central meteorological station at $time : beijing : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear to cloudy , calm to gentle breeze . 
shenyang : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degree c . , clear to cloudy , calm to gentle breeze . 
tianjin : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , clear to overcast , calm to gentle breeze . 
xi 'an : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degree c . , overcast , calm to gentle breeze . 
chengdu : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , drizzle to overcast , calm to gentle breeze . 
kunming : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , cloudy , calm to gentle breeze . 
shanghai : min . $number degree c . , max . $number degrees c . cloudy to drizzle , gentle to moderate breeze . 
wuhan : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , moderate to light snow , calm to gentle breeze . 
hangzhou : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , overcast to drizzle , calm to gentle breeze . 
taipei : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , overcast , calm to gentle breeze . 
guangzhou : min . $number degrees c , max . $number degrees c . , overcast to drizzle , calm to gentle breeze . 
hong kong : min . $number degrees c . , max . $number degrees c . , overcast to drizzle , gentle to moderate breeze . 
roundup : hong kong bourse bearish $date ( by yang guoqiang ) 
hong kong stock market suffered a crash $date when it slid $number points or $number percent to close at $number on the year 's last trading day , registering the sharpest slump among major bourses worldwide following the previous year 's overheated market . 
the hang seng index , key indictor of local blue chips , shed $number percent of its value on $date after its record high $number points on $date , $number trading day of the year . 
last friday 's turnover was $number hk dollars ( $number u.s. dollars ) , the year 's low compared with the $number ( $number u.s. dollars ) recorded on $date . 
local brokers say the surge at the beginning and the plunge at the end of $number painted an overall bearish picture for the whole year , making the market drop from the world 's $number biggest $date to $number a year later . 
the stocks ' freefall would cast negative effect on the market outlook $date . 
analysts mainly blame the year 's bear runs , starting in early $date , on the six - time interest rate hike by the us federal reserve , fears of continued falling property prices in hong kong and lack of liquidity of overseas investors . 
the most recent us interest rate rise in mid - $date triggered off a consistent yet adverse effect on the local market as the hk dollar is pegged to the us dollar at a fixed exchange rate . 
local media warn that the negative sentiment from the us was undermining investors ' confidence in fund managers and forcing massive redemption from the unit trust industry . 
" the effect is snowballing . 
as investors redeem their money , fund managers have to liquidate their position in the equity market to free cash for redemption , " said priscilla ng , senior manager for institutional sales at ocbc securities . 
tumbling property asset values have a large impact on the earnings of large banks and property companies whereas $number percent of the local bourse 's earnings come from banking and property sectors . 
the local property stocks , which are the largest constituents in the hang seng , were reported to be hard - hit $date following their best earnings at the end of $number and in early $number when the market was bullish and overheated in the morgan stanley shock . 
the property market started to slow down in $number quarter of $number in the wake of the local government 's implementation of new anti - speculation measures and banks ' tighter lending policies towards property investment . 
the interest rate hike in the last quarter put a further damper on the already sluggish property sector . 
observers estimate that the weak sentiment will continue in $number quarter of $number , when prices are expected to fall by $number percent . 
also $date , h shares with chinese background suffered heavy losses , though nine new chinese enterprises were listed on the hong kong stock exchange . 
they failed to gain as much as their six counterparts which came to the local market a year earlier . 
however , the china factor would increase their portfolio weightings on the local bourse , as $number china - owned enterprises were reported to have registered in hong kong with a total investment of $number hk dollars ( $number us dollars ) , making china $number largest investor in hong kong after britain . 
according to sg warbury , the britain - based investment bank , despite the bearish forecast , an imminent injection of cash into the market would help in the short - term period and hong kong has benefited from what it calls the global " $date effect " in which a positive outlook on the new year spills over to the stock market . 
the success of $date is partially accounted for by the powerful force of hong kong 's retail investors , who contribute $number percent of the market 's turnover . 
and punters have traditionally invested their year - end bonuses and $number - month salary checks in shares . 
nevertheless , salomon brothers ' economists and researchers predict little hope for a recovery before $number half of $number for the world equity markets . 
it is the same with the hong kong market . 
timothy moe , head of equity research for asia pacific region , expects the hong kong and the chinese mainland economies to experience a cyclical upturn in $number half of $number which would provide grounds for " a good rebound " that could see the index climb as high as $number by the end of the year . 
some investment houses still classify hong kong as an emerging market in which the principle of high risk for high returns remains true . 
but they are less willing to accept losses from slumps in emerging markets . 
although a generally pessimistic sentiment looms over the coming months , brokers believe the local stock market $date might cherish a slow recovery and rebound at $number - point level , better than most of asia 's bourses . 
overseas investment flows to state farms in hainan 
an increasing amount of overseas investment has been flowing into state farms in hainan , china 's largest economic zone in south china , to help tap the abundant agricultural and natural resources there . 
over the past three years , the local state farm administration bureau has signed $number contracts totalling contracts of $number u.s. dollars , with foreign investors . 
to date , the actual amount of foreign funds used by these state farms has come to $number u.s. dollars . 
thirtyeight sino - foreign joint ventures have gone into operation . 
they have realized a business turnover of $number yuan , and exported $number u.s. dollars - worth of goods $date . 
as the largest state - run farm conglomerate in china , hainan boast $number state farms with $number one built $date . 
the farms occupy a combined area of $number ha , a quarter of hainan 's total area . 
state farms are not only leading producers of natural rubber in hainan but also major developers of mineral resources as well as the tourism industry . 
since the special economic zone was founded $date , local state farms have sought foreign loans for the exploitation of the natural resources on the island . 
to provide foreign investors with an ideal investment climate , local state farm improved the infrastructure in five key development zones . 
state farm authorities in the guilingyang economic development zone invested $number yuan in infrastructure construction over the past few years . 
they also simplified procedures for the approval of new joint ventures and provided preferential terms for foreign investors . 
long distance runner named moroccan best athlete 
long distance runner khalid skah was named the $number best athlete of morocco . 
skah was the winner at the world cup half marathon race in oslo , norway , last year . 
he also helped the african team win the world cup title last $date . 
radioactive gas four times safe levels in hk 
a government report has pinpointed $number sites in hong kong where radioactive radon gas has reached levels almost four times those recommended as safe by the world health organization (who) . 
the south china sunday morning post reported today that people living in radon - heavy areas - - including the new territories village of pat heung and the heavily - populated urban areas of yau ma tei and north point - - said that officials had told them their buildings registered $number in gas tests , but unaware those figures were double or triple who guidelines . 
the who and the international commission of radio - logical protection warn that $number bequerels per cubic meter ( bq / m3 ) is the maximum level acceptable before radon inflicts health damage . 
in areas exceeding these levels - where residents are at a significantly higher risk of contracting lung cancer - they recommend immediate remedial action . 
but last week , hong kong 's principal environmental protection officer , raymond leung pak - min maintained that occupants of buildings with high radon levels had nothing to fear . 
building owners had been told to open windows to improve air circulation and follow - up tests showed all the high - radon buildings had returned to safe levels , he said . 
but a radiation expert at the university of hong kong said the government guidelines were no guarantee of safety . 
radon is odorless and invisible , and is produced by decaying radium found in granite , the rock on which more than a $number of hong kong is founded . 
bellmare wins japan 's emperor 's cup soccer 
koji noguchi scored twice to help bellmare hiratsuka beat more fancied cerezo osaka $number in the final of the emperor 's cup , japan 's premier knockout competition , here on sunday . 
a crowd of $number in the tokyo national stadium watched bellmare take its $number title in $number years when it won the all - japan soccer championship . 
bellmare , which is not even j. league regulars yet , opened the scoring when noguchi blasted home a cross from brazilian forward almir de souza in the $number minute . 
bellamre , based in a town on the ouskirts of tokyo , threatened cerezo 's goal repeatedly in $number half . 
with only four minutes to go , noguchi fired the ball into the cerezo goal which bounced off the bar before landing in the net . 
hiratsuka finshed $number in the $number - team j. league series behind verdy kawasaki in only its $number year in the professional ranks . 
cerezo , which beat yokohama marinos to clinch a spot in the cup final , will join the j. league next season . 
politics main concern for $number in hk 
hong kong enters $number with its hopes and fears resting on whether sino - british relations worsen or improve during the coming $number months . 
an exclusive " south china sunday morning post " poll found that $number percent of those surveyed wished the new year would bring hong kong better ties between the two sides , with $number percent putting it top of their wish list . 
the other top hopes for hong kong $date were a further fall in property prices , a rising hang seng index , and governor chris patten 's recall to london . 
but the telephone poll of $number people - conducted from last wednesday to friday - also found $number percent feared sino - british ties might take a turn for the worse this year . 
however , they were almost matched by the $number percent who feared further fatal accidents , similar to last summer 's kwun lung lau tragedy . 
opinions were evenly divided on whether the new year would be better than the old : $number percent said the events of $number led them to believe $number would be a better year for hong kong , but a similar number said they expect it to be worse . 
$number anticipated this year would be similar to the last one , while $number percent expressed no opinion . 
shanghai 's foreign economic relations and trade boom 
the foreign economic relations and trade of this china 's largest economic center with other countries and regions had been soaring last year . 
according to wang zukang , director of the shanghai municipal commission of foreign economic relations and trade , shanghai 's foreign trade has gone up rapidly in the past three years $date . 
last year saw the municipality export $number u.s. dollars worth of goods , up $number percent over last year ; and absorb $number u.s. dollars of foreign capital , equal to the total of the previous two years . 
between $number and $number , shanghai actually used $number u.s. dollars loaned by foreign governments and $number u.s. dollars in foreign aid . 
the city has $number organizations engaged in foreign economic and technical cooperation , up from one $date . 
by the end of $date last year , the city had obtained $number u.s. dollars from contracting overseas projects , $number u.s. dollars from labor service , and $number u.s. dollars from design and consulting services . 
wang noted that the the establishment of new pudong area has helped boost shanghai 's economy . 
according to statistics , pudong exported $number u.s. dollars worth of goods in $number $number months of last year , up $number percent from the same period of the previous year , and approved $number foreign - funded projects involving a total foreign investment of $number u.s. dollars . 
to promote foreign trade , the city has sponsored $number trade fairs and exhibitions over the past three years , and approved the establishment of $number foreign trade service organizations and $number foreign agencies here . 
economic news briefs beijing , $date ( xinhua ) - - today 's economic news briefs 
the sino - foreign joint ventures , most of which are involved in the processing of farm and sideline products , have made the city a well - known food basket in and outside china . 
overseas - funded enterprises increase investment another $number overseas - funded enterprises in putian city , east china 's fujian province , have increased investment last year to expand production as more and more such enterprises have become more profitable in the chinese market . 
these enterprises have poured a total of $number u.s. dollars into their china ventures by now , with half of them adding $number u.s. dollars each and the largest amounting to $number u.s. dollars . 
rare - earth metal products selling well rare - earth stone produced in baotou city in north china 's inner mongolia autonomous region has been selling well in and outside china as such metals made $number yuan in sales in $number ten months this year , $number u.s. dollars of which were made outside china . 
over the recent few years , the city has introduced $number u.s. dollars of investment from $number countries and regions such as the united states , britain and france and built the world 's largest system in rare - earth metal production . 
murayama pledges to continue promoting sino - japanese ties 
japanese prime minister tomiichi murayama promised today that he will continue his efforts to develop good sino - japanese relations $date . 
the prime minister told xinhua reporters that developing good sino - japanese ties is one of his cabinet 's basic policies , which is vital to the two nations as well as to peace and stability in the asian - pacific region . 
murayama said that last year witnessed frequent meetings between leaders of the two countries , including his meeting with chinese president jiang zemin in jarkata last $date . 
economic relations and cooperation between the two countries were strengthened as well , he said , citing a record - high bilateral trade volume last year . 
as for japan 's invasion of its neighbors in world war two (wwii) , the prime minister said the war had inflicted great losses on the japanese people . 
moreover , he added , japan 's invasion and colonial rule had brought unbearable sufferings and sadness to peoples of its neighboring countries . 
the prime minister said that $date , the $number anniversary of the end of wwii , japan will renew its resolution to keep the promise of not launching a war of aggression again and continue making contribution to world peace . 
japan would like to play a creative role in peacefully settling regional conflicts , promoting international disarmament and assisting developing countries , he said . 
major news in british press 
following are major news items in leading british newspapers today : the sunday times : - - the labour party is threatening to impose value - added tax on school fees in a move that could cut support among middle - class voters . 
the observer : - - thatcher fan leaves $number pounds to the national debt a patriotic widow from devon has left nearly $number pounds in her will " to reduce the national debt " and just $number pounds to " personal legatees . " 
the sunday telegraph : - - tebbit widens tory split former conservative party chairman lord tebbit has dramatically deepened the divisions within the tory party over europe by telling the rebel members of parliament who lost the party whip in $date that they have both his and lady thatcher 's full backing . 
the independent on sunday - - motorail to be axed in br sell - off all of britain 's motorail network is to close this year in $number of the cuts that flow from the rail privatization program . 
the service of almost $number trains a week carries motorists and their cars between london and bristol and destinations in scotland . 
it will end in $date 
xinhua international news summary at $number gmt on sunday 
a fire erupted in a hospital in petersburg , virginia , on the new year 's eve , killing four people , authorities said saturday . 
washington - - a gunman who opened fire saturday at an abortion clinic in norfolk , virginia , was arrested and also charged with shootings a day earlier that killed two women at two boston suburban clinics . 
belgrade - - bosnian serb and muslim leaders have signed an agreement to halt hostilities in bosnia for at least the next four months , a u. n. spokesman announced saturday . 
geneva - - the world trade organization (wto) , the successor of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) , comes into being on new year 's day . 
moscow - - chechen leader dhzokhar dudayev 's headquarters in the presidential palace of the breakaway republic of chechnya and several other buildings in the center of the chechen capital of grozny are now in flames , the itar - tass news agency reported saturday . 
situation calm in bahrain : official 
bahrain 's situation is calm and normal , a report reaching here today quoted a government official in manama as saying . 
the official , who denied opposition reports of more anti - government protests , said saturday that " the situation is very calm . 
there were no incidents over the last $number days and life is absolutely normal . " 
" most of the reports that are coming from abroad are extremely inaccurate and some of them are false , " said the bahraini official . 
a series of anti - government demonstrations started in bahrain from $date . 
during the clashes between police and protesters , a bahraini policeman was killed and a number of protesters were arrested . 
commenting on reports from two london - based opposition groups on more demonstrations in bahrain , the official said , " we believe that some of these organizations are supported by elements from abroad . 
they have no organization based in bahrain . " 
meanwhile , saudi interior minister prince nayef bin abdel - aziz pledged in manama friday that the kingdom was committed to helping defend the security of neighboring bahrain . 
" the security of the two countries is interdependent and can not be disassociated , " he said at the end of a three - day visit . enditem $number / $number $number gmt = $number $number / $number $time gmt nnnn 
mugabe hails year of peace in zimbabwe 
zimbabwean president robert mugabe has hailed the peace currently prevailing in the country and called on zimbabweans to uphold the national unity . 
addressing a gathering at state house at a traditionl new year 's ball he hosted last night , mugabe said $number had been a year filled with stability and peace which was largely owed to the good work of the police amd army . 
he said the internal situation was also owed to the zimbabwean community , saying peace did not come from the top but from the people as a result of their readines to work together and to accept one another . 
'' we are all entitled to peace and stability , we are entitled to peaceful interaction whether we are neighbors in a village or we live together in town , or a large rural community , '' said the president . 
he hoped that the african countries which were corrently facing civil strife would achieve peace in the new year . 
'' the warring factions had to realise that only through acceptance of each other would peace prevail in thier respective countries . '' 
he also called on zimbabweans , black or white , to tolerate each other in order to foster a healthy relationship . 
u.s. sanctions on china to harm itself : japan 's press 
the threatened u.s. trade sanctions against china , if imposed , would harm washington 's own economic interests , the japanese media reported today . 
the jiji news agency said japanese firms in china would possibly become indirect victims if their products are listed among the goods for the sanctions . 
u.s. trade representative mickey kantor announced saturday that washington would impose trade sanctions on chinese goods worth $number u.s. dollars if china could not meet the demands raised by the u.s. for the protection of intellectual property rights . 
meanwhile , the local media also quoted chinese xinhua news agency 's report on china 's reaction to the possible sanctions , saying the chinese ministry of foreign trade and economic cooperation strongly protested against the economic sanctions threatened by the u.s. 
china 's retaliation measures would be strong once the u.s. sanctions take effect and " a fierce trade war between china and the united state would break out . " 
the nhk predicted in a morning report today that china 's retaliation would inflict huge economic losses on washington . 
for this reason , the u.s. might have to give up its threatened sanctions in the end . 
roundup : manila hails $number with fireworks injuries 
as the country ushered $date , more filipinos were injured by firecrackers and stray bullets during the new year 's eve revelry . 
more than $number people fell victims to exploding firecrackers and fireworks in metro manila and $number of them were rushed to hospitals for emergency treatment , the department of health said today . 
meanwhile , $number people sustained minor injuries caused by stray bullets , and six of them were hospitalized . 
these figures were collected from $number metro manila hospitals during the peak period from $time saturday to $time . 
compared with the figures recorded last year , the fireworks - related injuries rose $number percent while stray bullet - injuries increased $number percent . 
besides , pyrotechnics and firecracker explosions were behind six fires that hit metro manila shortly after midnight , police said . 
in calamba , laguna , a fire sparked by a firecracker explosion saturday killed at least six persons and injured $number others . 
the fire also destroyed a public market and a nearby bank . 
in bacolod city , three persons were burned to death shortly after new year 's eve when their business establishment caught fire , which was ignited by firecrackers and pyrotechnics . 
in baguio city , at least $number people were hurt on the new year 's eve , eight of them due to fireworks explosion and two caused by traffic accidents . 
in zamboaga city , two persons were hit by stray bullets while eight others were injured by firecrackers . 
last month , the authorities issued repeated warnings against illegal use of firecrackers and fireworks and indiscriminate firing of guns during the new year 's revelry . 
many injuries were caused by prohibited fireworks , the department of health said . 
four killed in hospital fire on new year eve in u.s. 
a fire erupted in a hospital in petersburg , virginia , on the new year 's eve , killing four people , authorities said . 
the fire broke out in a patient 's room on $number floor of the southside regional medical center shortly after $number p.m. and gutted several rooms in the hospital . 
authorities did not know what caused the blaze . 
they evacuated the people in $number , $number and $number floors of the six - story building , the associated press said . 
judy raines , petersburg police dispatcher , said four people died , including two who were transferred to the medical college of virginia in richmond , $number miles to the north . 
five others were overcome by smoke but there was no immediate report on their condition . 
parliament leader attends new year concert 
qiao shi , chairman of the standing committee of china 's national people 's congress , attended a new year concert saturday evening given by chinese musicians now residing overseas . 
the troupe was composed of $number young chinese musicians studying abroad who play key roles in different symphony orchestras in the united states . 
during the concert named " homecoming " , they played pieces by bach , tchaikovsky , grieg and chinese composer ma sicong . 
qiao went onto the stage to congratulate the musicians at the end of the concert . 
the musicians , taking the new year vacation , practised and gave a performance in los angeles before coming back to china . 
they are scheduled to tour southeast asian countries . 
major news items in japanese newspapers 
following are the major news items in leading japanese newspapers today : nihon keizai shimbun : - - russian forces in a violent offensive against the chechen capital grozny hit a former presidential palace and set it on fire . 
asahi shimbun : - - the united states put $ $number worth chinese products on a tentative list for punitive tariffs . 
tokyo nichi nichi : - - malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad said in an interview with this newspaper that on the $number anniversary of world war two , it is time for japan to play an important role in world arena as the period of repentance has come to an end . 
chinese leaders attend new year reception 
president jiang zemin and other chinese top leaders attended a new year reception here this morning . 
the reception was sponsored by the national committee of the chinese people 's political consultative conference and presided over by li ruihuan , chairman of the organization . 
speaking at the reception , jiang said that china in the past year successfully carried out a series of reforms in key areas including banking , finance and taxation , investment , foreign exchange and foreign trade and made a decisive step forward in establishing a socialist market economic system . 
the national economy maintained a fast and sustained growth . 
$date , he said , emphasis of economic work will be given to checking inflation , strengthening agriculture and deepening the reform in state - owned enterprises . 
china will spare no efforts to maintain long - term prosperity and stability in hong kong and macao , jiang said . 
he said that following the principle of " one country , two systems , " " we will actively promote peaceful reunification of both sides of the taiwan straits . " 
" any attempt to split china and create taiwan independence will absolutely be rejected by all the chinese people including the taiwan compatriots and is therefore doomed to failure , " he said . 
world peace and common development are the desire shared by the chinese and other peoples , he said . 
premier li peng , chairman of the standing committee of the national people 's congress qiao shi , vice - premier zhu rongji attended the reception held in the great hall of the people . 
more postgraduate candidates expected 
more students in china have applied to take the postgraduate entrance examination this year . 
the examination will be held in $date . 
a local official in charge of the examination said that more and more high - level intellectuals are badly needed , and they have more opportunities to enjoy better working conditions and high salaries . 
in east china 's anhui province a record $number students have registered for the postgraduate examination . 
the official said that students taking the examination are younger than before , mostly recent graduates under $number years old . 
commentary : washington 's barbarous action against china ( by yin qian ) 
using as a pretext china 's so - called piracy of its intellectual property rights , the u.s. government threatened today to impose trade sanctions against china , if its demands are not met by $date . 
u.s. trade representative mickey kantor today presented a list of $number u.s. dollars worth of chinese imports - - including electronic products , shoes , toys , suitcases and other goods - - on which the u.s. would impose punitive tariffs of up to $number percent if the threatened trade sanctions are imposed . 
retaliation and trade sanctions are the old tricks often resorted to by washington in settling its trade disputes with other countries . 
the real motive behind this u.s. bluster is to exert pressure and force on the other side to make concessions conforming to its desires . 
with such an intention in mind , the united states is trying to negate the great efforts and marked progress made by china in protecting intellectual property rights . 
kantor is quoted as saying that " to date , china has been unwilling to take the necessary steps to protect american intellectual property rights . " 
he even said the degree of piracy in china " has gone from bad to worse " over the past year and a half . 
this accusation is totally groundless . 
in fact , china has completed its legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights within a dozen years , which had actually taken some developed countries several decades - - or even a century - - to do so . 
the chinese government , meanwhile , has been making efforts in enforcing its relevant laws and in cracking down on the piracy of intellectual property rights through both judicial and administrative means . 
however , the u.s. has turned a blind eye to the conspicuous and basic facts and has repeatedly raised unreasonable demands during the sino - u.s. talks on the issue . 
they have even interfered in china 's judicial and legislative process . 
during the talks in beijing in mid - $date , the u.s. delegation once again waved their wooden swords of retaliation and even threatened to block china 's re - entry to the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) . 
what 's more , the american delegates even walked out of the talks at crucial moment without informing the chinese side , thus breaking off the negotiations . 
but afterwards , the american side distorted the fact and put the blame on the chinese side . 
in international trade , it is quite normal for trading parties to have differences on specific issues . 
these differences should be settled step by step through consultation and negotiations on the basis of equality , which is also the basic norms in dealing with international affairs . 
it is , therefore , neither proper nor popular for one side to intimidate the other side with trade sanctions time and again while settling their trade disputes . 
and the chinese side would certainly not accept the unreasonable demands put forward by the americans concerning the protection of intellectual property rights . 
over the past few years , china and the u.s. have gained good momentum in economic and trade cooperation and exchange , which is beneficial to both sides . 
so , a full - fledged " trade war " will inevitably inflict losses not only on china but also on the u.s. . 
it may even harm the interests of other countries and regions which have direct or indirect involvement in trade with china or the united states . 
for this reason , the only way out for china and the united states is to take the whole situation into account and solve the sino - u.s. disputes through dialogue on the basis of mutual respect , equality and consultation . 
china increases export of machinery , electrical appliance 
china 's export of machinery and electrical appliance has been up for $number year . 
according to customs ' statistics , china earned $number u.s. dollars from export of such products in $number $number months of this year , an increase of $number percent over the same period of the previous year . 
the export of machinery and electrical appliances has risen to account for $number of the country 's total export . 
china has improved its export structure through exploring the market potential in north america , south america and oceania and boosting export in countries around it . 
in $number $number months of last year , china sold machinery and electrical appliance products in $number countries and regions , with hong kong , the united states , the european union , japan , and five countries in the association of southeast asian nations (asean) in the lead . 
exports to brazil , colombia and cuba rose most remarkably . 
during the same period , china 's export of machinery and electrical appliance to burma , afghanistan , bangladesh , bhutan , india , vietnam and the republic of korea all enjoyed a rise topping $number percent . 
the period between $number and $number has seen an annual increase of $number percent in china 's export of machinery and electrical products . 
last year , china ranked $number in the world in the export of such products , up from $number $date . 
the country 's export of recorders , black and white tv sets , bicycles , sewing machines and tools ranks $number in the world . 
however , trade officials pointed out that the country 's export in this field is still low in comparison to the size of the industry . 
china 's total export of machinery and electrical products accounted for only $number percent of the world 's total $date . 
foreigners in shanghai celebrate new year 
more than $number foreign experts and students here enjoyed themselves in tolling a temple bell last night to mark the new year . 
prior to the bell tolling , the foreigners attended an evening party sponsored by the shanghai municipal government . 
addressing the gathering , vice - mayor xie lijuan said an open shanghai is increasing its contacts and academic exchange with the outside world and expecting more foreign experts and students . 
over the past $number years , some $number foreign experts and scholars have been here to give lectures or engage in research projects . 
meanwhile , some $number professors and lecturers have been in shanghai to teach in $number universities , colleges and middle schools . 
with their help , local institutions of higher learning have opened $number new specialities , $number subjects and $number courses and compiled a great deal of teaching materials . 
so far , $number universities and colleges in shanghai have received $number foreign students from $number countries and regions . 
kenya to invite foreign experts for constitutional reform 
kenyan president daniel arap moi has said that he will soon invite constitutional experts from western countries to collate kenyans ' views on constitutional reform . 
in a new year message today , president moi said he has invited kenyans from all communities to submit their views for consideration by the experts . 
he said the legal experts will be drawn from the united states , germany , france , britain and canada , among others . 
kenyans have been discussing constitution reform while deepening the present economic reform . 
" following past debates and comments on the constitution , i will be inviting constitutional lawyers and experts from various countries , including the united states , germany , france , britain and canada , to assist in collating the various views from all kenyans before they are put to parliament for debate in the usual manner " . 
china exchange trade booms 
china exchange trade system in this country 's largest economic center had concluded transactions totalling $number u.s. dollars as of $date . 
included were $number u.s. dollars and $number hong kong dollars . 
founded in $date , the system now has business contacts with $number major cities via computer and telecommunications . 
at present , it has $number members of banking organizations , of which $number are foreign - funded . 
banking experts here agreed that the system was the outcome of the reform on foreign exchange system and has promoted the establishment of the new , market - based floating exchange rate system . 
bangladeshi opposition to form liaison body 
opposition parties in bangladesh are planning to form a $number - style liaison committee to give fresh impetus to their " oust - government " movement . 
the committee will be formed with members of the awami ( people 's ) league , national party and jamaat - e - islami after a $number - day strike program on $date , according to informed sources . 
the main opposition awami league has also decided to hold talks with the other political parties , particularly the left democratic front , to ensure their involvement in the movement for elections under a caretaker government . 
the decision was reportedly taken at a meeting of the awami league presidium saturday . 
the formation of a liaison committee after the resignation of opposition mps has become inevitable to carry forward the new course of action program against the government , said a top - ranking leader of the awami league . 
the functions of the liaison committee would be to chalk out movement programs which would be announced at the respective party rallies of the opposition parties . 
the main political parties in the country , including the ruling bangladesh nationalist party , formed a liaison committee $date for strengthening their " oust - ershad government " movement which finally brought down the ershad regime at the end of $number . 
in a new political development in the country , $number opposition mps submitted their resignation letters to the speaker on $date under the leadership of awami league chief and former opposition leader sheikh hasina after the dialogue between the opposition and the government failed on the caretaker government issue . 
the opposition demanded immediate resignation of prime minister khaleda zia and her cabinet and holding of a fresh national election . 
the opposition parties had boycotted parliament sessions for nearly ten month , demanding for a neutral , nonpartisan caretaker government to hold next elections . 
prime minister khaleda zia , however , asserted that parliament is still fully legal with $number elected representatives and said that her government would maintain the constitutional process at any cost . 
there is no scope to term the parliament illegal , she said rebutting opposition claim that parliament lost legitimacy with the resignation of opposition mps . 
addressing two public meetings at rajbari district saturday , the prime minister accused the opposition of trying to push the country into conflict and warned of legal action if anyone tries to create indiscipline and take the law in one 's own hands . 
major news items in leading kenyan newspapers 
following are major news items in leading kenyan newspapers today : sunday nation - - the european union has agreed to provide sufficient funds to be used in setting up a tourism board in kenya this year . 
standard on sunday - - two kenyan girls , teresia mulei kaleche , $number , and esther ndumi , $number , abducted to tanzania two years ago , were reunited with their mothers on friday after a dramatic escape . 
hubei makes use of overseas loans 
central china 's hubei province has made a good use of $number u.s. dollars in overseas loans to develop the basic industries over the past few years . 
local officials said that the loan - funded projects involve energy , communications , telecommunications and important raw material industries . 
statistics show that the province has utilized $number u.s. dollars of loans , $number dollars of which came from foreign governments , $number dollars from international financial organizations , and $number dollars as commercial loans . 
with the loans the province have built a number of key projects , including a power station , an airport , a bridge across the yangtze river and several mines . 
the basic industries and contruction have greatly alleviated restrictions on the economic development of hubei and improved its investment environment , an official of the provincial planning committee said . 
italian president paints bleak picture for $number 
italian president oscar luigi scalfaro told his countrymen on new year 's eve that italy has finally staggered up to a crucial political crossroads . 
in his $number - minute nationally televised speech , scalfaro said that italy suffers from " organized crime , kidnappings , illegal drug and arms deals , " as well as " illegal sales of nuclear materials and human organs . " 
but as if that wasn 't enough to create a less than optimistic picture of what the country has to deal with $date , there are also the challenges presented by ongoing political instability , a huge jobless population and the suffering of victims of floods , the president said . 
in addition , the president urged that what he characterized as the most severe period of political corruption in italy 's not unblemished history should be brought to an end . 
in conclusion , he said , what his country needs is stability , confidence in politics and the promotion of its reputation in the world . 
nepal to step up education development 
deputy prime minister of nepal madhav kumar nepal stated that his government was committed to develop education by ensuring the maximum participation of people in order to remove illiteracy , ignorance and poverty from society . 
the deputy prime minister made this remark while inaugurating a $number - day national seminar of district secretaries of the nepal national teachers organization (nnto) organized by the nnto central committee starting from saturday in the capital city . 
according to the $number plan ( $number ) , nepal would strive to achieve a higher reduction of illiteracy rate from $number percent $date to $number percent by year $number while carrying out the principle of universal primary education . 
m. k. nepal said that the present government has made the primary education compulsory and secondary education free , and also made necessary arrangement for education in the mother tongue . 
nepal disclosed that the government was planning to open agriculture and other universities in various areas of the country . 
+ the government is also committed to promoting political culture reflecting democratic norms and values , and exercising the constitution in the interests of the nation and the people + , he added . 
the seminar , participated by nnto secretaries from the country 's $number districts , was scheduled to hold extensive deliberations on current policies and programs of the organization , office management and the problems of teachers and their solutions . enditem = $number $number / $number $time gmt nnnn 
chilean copper fills chilean coffers 
chile 's coffers were filled with an unexpected additional $number u.s. dollar bonus from copper production last year because of price rises on international markets . 
copper 's price reached a final average of $number cents a pound at the end of the year , $number cents higher than the price estimated in the government budget for $number . 
on today 's london metals exchange , copper stood at $number cents a pound , slightly higher than the price of $number cents a pound yesterday . 
copper 's $number 's average price is also higher than the $number average of $number cents a pound , and even higher than that of $number , which was $number cents a pound . 
few market analysts foresaw that $number 's average per pound price of copper would be higher than a dollar . 
at the start of the year the price was $number cents a pound , but it later began to recover , more visibly after $date 
the chilean copper commission ( cochilco ) said the rises in copper 's price were in part activated by the development of the u.s. and european economies and were given an additional boost from the strong impulse of asian economies . 
chile is one of the main copper producing and exporting countries of the world . 
this year it produced $number tons of fine grade copper , mostly for export . 
gunman arrested in abortion clinic shootings 
a gunman who opened fire today at an abortion clinic in norfolk , virginia , was arrested and also charged with shootings a day earlier that killed two women at two boston suburban clinics . 
the gunman was identified by police as john c. salvi iii , a $number - year - old student hairdresser from hampton , new hampshire . 
salvi was arrested minutes after shots were fired at the hillcrest clinic at about $time , when a police officer happened to be on the scene for another case . 
witnesses said the gunman , who carried a black bag , opened fire from a parking lot and shot out the clinic 's lobby windows . 
the man then bolted from his truck and tried to flee , but police trapped him against the wall of a bank . 
police said no one was injured in the shooting at the clinic . 
salvi 's handgun , ammunition and a receipt were found in a black duffel bag he dropped at one of the clinics in the boston suburban town of brookline . 
all were from bob 's tactical shooting range and gun shop in salisbury , massachusetts . 
the shooter opened fire at two abortion clinics in brookline friday , killing two women and wounding three others . 
salvi will appear before a federal magistrate in norfolk on a charge of flight from prosecution and then be extradited to brookline where he will face $number - degree murder charges . 
white house spokeswoman ginny terzano hailed salvi 's arrest today , saying that " this is a serious issue and something that not only the president , but all americans , want to see stopped . " 
unrest threatens investment : thai senate speaker 
thai senate speaker meechai ruchupan said saturday that the country 's economy will improve this year only under a stable political climate . 
he added that economic growth is based on political stability and that both local and foreign investors would hesitate in the face of political uncertainty or chaos . 
$date , the thai government faced a few crisis in parliament , two cabinet reshuffles and a few prolonged protests in bangkok and in the provinces . 
he said if politics stumbles because of violence , perhaps stemming from a protest situation , the economy will also stumble because of lack of confidence among investors . 
commenting on warnings from government mps that elements of the opposition would cooperate with remnants of the national peace - keeping council , which staged a coup against the chartichai administration $date , to topple the chuan government even if this was to entail using violence , meechai said , " senators should stay aloof , not get involved , and watch things from a distance . " 
meechai said as each political party suffers from internal problems , something unusual might happen in the new year as the general election draws near . 
as the chuan government 's four - year term ends in $date , the year $number would be crucial for political parties if they want to increase their popularity among voters and to win as many seats as possible in the general election . 
panamanian court acquits noriega 's daughter 
lorena noriega , daughter of former panamanian strongman general manuel antonio noriega , has been found not guilty of falsely collecting money for work she didn 't do . 
criminal court judge rolando quezada vallespi announced the not guilty verdict today , according to reports in the local press . 
noriega 's daughter was charged with fraudulently accepting $number u.s. dollars in fees for work she claimed to have done as an official in the drug secretariat of panama 's criminal justice system . 
former prosecutor carlos augusto villalaz , who was accused along with miss noriega , received a presidential pardon . 
the accusation against the daughter of the former general charged that she received salaries without working $date , when the u.s. invasion of panama deposed the noriega military regime . 
in the course of the trial miss noriega returned the money she had illegally received during that period by means of a check for $number dollars . 
miss noriega is now living in the united states and was tried in absentia by judge vallespi . 
india not to slow down economic reforms 
indian prime minister p. v. narasimha rao has set the tone for the new year by emphatically asserting that there would be + no alternation , no u - turn and not even slowing down + of his government 's policy of economic reforms . 
talking to the hindustan times here saturday , which made it public today , rao said that the congress party would not be compelled to join the populist bandwagon and invent gimmicky economic schemes in pursuit of votes . 
he added , however , + some reorientation and fine tuning based on a review of performance is possible + . 
he said that the congress has always been pro - poor and + we will remain firm about this + . 
he also revealed that he would be coming out with a complete set of new policies and programs within the next few days . 
he confirmed that he was currently giving finishing touches to some statements reflecting his ideas , which would be announced very soon . 
this suggests that rao is probably working to produce a wide - ranging election manifesto for the party in view of the forthcoming five - state assembly elections to be held in $date this year . 
its main thrust may be specially focus rural development funds on the poorest sections so that the target groups benefit directly and power brokers are eliminated . 
similarly , the next union budget can also be expected to contain major provisions aimed at poverty alleviation in the rural sector . 
rao insisted that economic reforms had to be delinked from his party recent electoral reverses so that no deleterious impact was felt on the economy . 
colombian police swoop down on nation - wide drug " airforce " 
colombian police have grounded what amounts to a small airforce of $number light planes allegedly linked to the illegal drug trade in a nationwide crackdown on airborne drug smuggling . 
according to reports today in the local press , $number people suspected of connections with the illicit airborne drug smuggling were also netted in the nationwide operation , called " golondrina " ( swallow ) . 
police swooped down in nation - wide raids , as they began the two - day operation , jointly carried out by the colombian police , interpol and the u.s. government 's drug enforcement agency (dea) . 
the operation , which began yesterday and is scheduled to end today at $time , concentrates on cracking down on unregistered light planes that are suspected of being used as an ad hoc " airforce " by high - flying drug dealers . 
the " golondrina " task force will conduct snap inspections and checks on hangars and commercial as well as private aircraft in nine airports as well as all loading areas in the country 's air terminals . 
police and customs officials have already searched a total of $number charter and commercial flights , including passengers and baggage , according to police deputy director - general luis enrique montenegro . 
major news in indian newspapers 
following are major news in indian english newspapers today : the hindustan times - - prime minister saturday said that there would be no alternation , no u - turn and not even slowing down of his government 's policy of economic reforms . $number people died and $number others injured in a train wreck friday in rangoon , one of the severest accidents in recent years . 
the sunday times - - india saturday amended its patent act , $number , and the anti - dumping law , through late night promulgation of two presidential ordinances to meet its obligations under the world trade organization agreement . 
indian express - - eight people died and $number others were injured when the bangalore bound express train from bombay derailed on saturday morning . 
the economic times - - the world bank asks the indian government to go slow on expressway project , suggesting it concentrate on by - passes , bridges and projects costing not $number rupees . 
zapatista army announces $number - day truce 
the rebel zapatista national liberation army (znla) has ordered its troops in the conflict - ridden southeastern state of chiapas to suspend offensive operations on $date . 
the truce was announced in a znla communique , dated friday and signed by subcommander " marcos . " 
the communique said that during the truce period , the znla will not block roads or attack any of the present positions held by the government forces . 
the znla will withdraw to a safe distance to prevent any confrontation with the government forces , the communique added . 
the znla also repeated its willingness help create conditions which will permit a stable truce " making possible a serious and responsible dialogue for peace with justice and dignity for all mexicans . " 
mexican president ernesto zedillo ponce de leon , in response to the znla communique , ordered the national defense secretariat to suspend the mexican army 's advance into chiapas , ordering troops to halt at their present positions . 
president zedillo stressed his commitment to holding the army to the ceasefire , and said he believes that " the political way is the only one to offer a peaceful solution to the chiapas conflict and a dignified , just and lasting peace . " 
a ceasefire maintained in chiapas since $date was broken on $date when chiapas governor - elect eduardo robledo rincon , of the institutional revolutionary party (pri) , who the opposition accused of electoral fraud , nevertheless assumed office . 
the znla 's new year truce announcement coincides with $number anniversary of the rebel peasant group 's uprising . 
japan vows to carry out exchange programs for peace , friendship 
japanese prime minister tomiichi murayama has stressed here that japan should conscientiously carry out exchange programs for peace and friendship to contribute to world peace . 
speaking at a recent new year press conference , murayama also said japan should make a serious effort to deal with what he described as certain post - war issues and take a positive attitude towards trade and development at asia - pacific economic conferences . 
addressing economic issues , murayama vowed to firmly push ahead japan 's administrative reforms , strive to restructure its economy , and drastically narrow the gap between domestic and international prices . 
on the issue of intellectual property rights , he vowed to lay the foundations for research and development in both hardware and software and actively participate in the building of worldwide information networks . 
more competitiveness in world market : thai pm 
thai prime minister chuan leekpai said that his government was working to set a development direction so as to increase the country 's competitiveness in the world market . 
in a new year 's day message , the prime minister said that in anticipation of a higher growth rate for the country this year , the government would work harder to make full use of the world trade organization and to proclaim new customs duty rates for all sectors of industrial goods . 
he said several new projects would be implemented this year , including royally - initiated projects , mass transit projects and the new sports complex . 
he admitted that attempts to solve the traffic problem in bangkok were proceeding too slow , but pledged to speed up efforts . 
during the new year , he said , the government would strive harder to distribute wealth to people in rural areas . 
he added that the government has initiated a fund to provide loans to poor students so that they can have more educational opportunity . 
talking about accomplishments $date , he cited thailand 's continued growth rate at $number percent and exports topping the $number ( $number us dollars ) mark for $number time in the country 's history . 
in his new year message to the nation , king bhumibol adulyadej called on his subjects to " study the situation and the events with wisdom and rationality . " 
" if a problem is identified , we should help solve it with the resourcefulness of all parties in an effective manner , " the king said . 
he also urged the thai people to regard mutual interest as an interest that all individuals must uphold . 
romania expects further privatization , more foreign investment $date 
president ion iliescu said today that romania will speed up privatization and attract more foreign investment in the new year to invigorate its national economy . 
in his new year message released this evening , the president said that during the past year , romania was beset with difficulties but also blessed with progress . 
$date , the country enjoyed political and social stability and its economy began to recover , though at a low rate , after four successive years of decline , he said . 
iliescu said that romania will accelerate privatization and attract more foreign investment in the new year to boost its economy and strengthen the country 's ability to compete . 
as to the country 's foreign policies , iliescu said romania will adopt a peaceful and cooperative diplomatic policy towards its neighboring nations to strengthen its role for regional stability . 
$number hardest year yet for bulgaria : zhelev 
$number was the hardest year faced by bulgaria in recent memory , bulgarian president zheliu zhelev said on the eve of new year 's day . 
in his new year message delivered on state television , the president said that " an economic crisis , inflation , unemployment , poverty and crimes will accompany us until the moment that we celebrate a new year . " 
despite these hardships , zhelev said , the national economy began to recover $date and bulgaria 's integration with a number of european organizations went smoothly . 
zhelev said that bulgaria also reached agreements with foreign banks , including those in the paris club , on the settlement of the country 's foreign debts during the past year . 
nepal postpones child - labor free program 
the newly - elected government of nepal has postponed the implementation of a program on child - labor , according to the labor department . 
in a statement issued saturday , the labor department stated that the program would start only after the completion of $number phase preparations as both $number and $number phase preparations for the program had not yet been completed effectively and as the central carpet industry association had requested reconsideration on the decision . 
the nepali government had decided to issue + certificate of non - involvement of child labor ' to the carpet industry in the country on $date to prevent the carpet industry from using child labor . 
the child - labor free program was scheduled to begin on $date of $number originally and the certificates will be issued by the ministry of labor to the carpet industries . 
the carpet industry is one of the pillars in nepal 's national economy and it is also one of the largest industries to earn foreign currency in the country . 
however , child labor is very popular in the industry , which has aroused an international attention . 
france 's future depends on europe , mitterrand says 
french president francois mitterrand said today that the future of france depends on europe and urged french people not to separate the idea of prosperity for their country from the concept of the construction of europe . 
in his $number new year message to the nation as president , mitterrand said that france faces two major tasks in its dealings with the rest of europe $date - - the implementation of the maastricht treaty and the step - by - step expansion of the european union (eu) . 
the eu must be expanded but should not be weakened by the expansion , he noted , adding that the future of france is inalienably linked with that of europe as a whole . 
the president also appealed for a more fair and equitable allocation of wealth in france in the coming year . 
bosnian serbs , muslims agree on $number - month truce 
bosnian serb and muslim leaders have signed an agreement to halt hostilities in bosnia for at least the next four months , a u. n. spokesman announced today . 
the four - month ceasefire agreement , due to take effect at noon on $date , was inked at ceremonies held in sarajevo and pale respectively this evening . 
the signing of the agreement came after extensive negotiations by u. n. special envoy yasushi akashi and u. n. commander in bosnia michael rose , who attended the ceremonies in pale and sarajevo . 
according to an agreement brokered by former u.s. president jimmy carter earlier in $date , bosnian serbs and muslims should hold peace talks to find a permanent solution to the crisis in bosnia on the basis of a peace plan proposed by the five - nation international contact group once the actual cessation of hostilities is confirmed . 
major news in philippine newspapers 
following are major news in philippine press today : philippine star : - - president ramos said the year $number will be a milestone in the economic life of the filipino people as the country becomes a part of an open international trading system . 
manila standard : - - the philippines is cited by the far eastern economic review , a hong kong - based magazine , as the most improved economy $date . 
philippine journal and manila bulletin : - - at least six people were burned to death while $number others were injured in a fire sparked by a firecracker explosion in calamba , laguna yesterday . 
um envoy postpones kabul tour for security reasons 
the un secretary general 's special envoy to afghanistan mehmud mestiri canceled his flight to kabul due to security reasons , his assistant soterios mosouris said . 
mosouris said here saturday the warring factions could not hold up a three - day ceasefire in kabul and other parts of the country as mestiri requested . 
mestiri was scheduled to leave here for kabul saturday to start $number leg of his efforts to settle the afghan conflict . 
mosouris said mestiri might embark on his journey today , but it is also subject to the holding of ceasefire . 
according to the assistant , two personal aides of mestiri on political and security has reached kabul saturday to prepare for his visit . 
mestiri is expected to meet rabbani in kabul and prime minister gulbuddin hekmatyar in the eastern city jalalabad during his visit to the country . 
the talks are expected to concentrate on sorting out a mechanism to facilitate transfer of power . 
rabbani , whose two - year term in office expired on $date , refused to step down because he thinks a unilateral transfer of power would not solve the afghan problem . 
wto open for business on new year 's day 
the world trade organization (wto) , the successor of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) , comes into being on new year 's day . 
the wto , a long - envisaged $number pillar of the post - world war two global economic structure alongside the world bank and the international monetary fund , will administer the entire set of trade accords negotiated in the seven - year uruguay round of trade talks and provide a permanent forum for further trade negotiations . 
compared with the gatt , the wto has a far wider scope , bringing into the multilateral trading system , for $number time , commercial activities such as trade in services , the exchange of ideas in the context of intellectual property protection , and investment . 
the wto also clarifies and strengthens the original gatt rules for trade in goods such as non - discrimination , and equal treatment for imports and domestic goods in the internal market . 
the new world trade body also has a more streamlined dispute settlement mechanism whose rulings cannot be vetoed by any members . 
all the $number members of the old gatt automatically become wto members upon acceptance of the uruguay round agreement . 
the prospective membership of the wto is already around $number countries and territories , with many others considering membership . 
as there are $number gatt members who can only complete their ratification procedures of the uruguay round accords $date , gatt members had agreed that the gatt will still coexist with the wto for one year . 
moreover , because of the lengthy fact - finding procedures involved , complaints can be brought under gatt 's anti - dumping and anti - subsidies codes for another two years . 
flag - raising ceremony attracts $number people 
some $number people attended a national flag - raising ceremony at tiananmen square , downtown beijing , early this morning to mark $number day of $number . 
many watchers , including students and elders from other parts of the country , had been waiting for the occasion since $time at the square . 
being live - televised by the beijing television station , the ceremony lasted for two minutes and $number . 
it was accompanied by the national anthem played by a $number - member military band . 
the guards of today 's performance , with an average age of $number , were $number group since china regularized its flag - raising ceremony on $date . 
the flag - raising - and - lowering ceremony at tiananmen square has become part of the education on patriotism in china in recent years . 
the ceremony attracted $number spectators $date , $number percent of whom were young people . 
major news in pakistani press 
following are major news items in leading pakistani press today : the pakistan times - - the central executive committee (cec) of the ruling pakistan people 's party (ppp) saturday applauded prime minister benazir bhutto 's approach for restoring normalcy in karachi . 
the nation - - the cec of ppp saturday expressed its displeasure and concern over price - hike and called upon the government to take effective measures to contain it . 
the frontier post - - mehmud mestiri , the un special envoy to afghanistan , had cancel his flight to afghanistan saturday as the warring groups could not hold up a three - day ceasefire in kabul . 
the muslim - - the ppp authorized its leader benazir bhutto saturday to reconstitute the existing cec . 
beijing newspaper highlights 
highlights of today 's major beijing - based newspapers : all the papers carry a new year message by chinese president jiang zemin to greet overseas listeners of china radio international , as well as a planned counter - retaliation list vis - a - vis u.s. trade retaliation announced by the ministry of foreign trade and economic cooperation yesterday . 
people 's daily - - in an editorial to mark the new year , the paper calls for efforts to better handle the relations between reforms , development and stability , and to accelerate the establishment of a socialist market economic structure $date . 
- - as of $date , china 's foreign exchange center had concluded transactional volume topping $number u.s. dollars . 
- - with the approval of the state council , the people 's bank of china will raise the interest of bank loans starting from today . 
xinhua daily telegraph - - chinese president jiang zemin met with king norodom sihanouk and queen sihanouk of cambodia and gave a banquet in their honor at diaoyutai state guesthouse here yesterday . 
- - the paper carries two yearenders on its frontpage reviewing china 's rapid economic development and analysing the world 's situation over the past year . 
brazilian soccer star romario named sportsman of the year 
brazilian soccer star romario was named " champion of champions " for $number by a poll of journalists at the french sports newspaper l 'equipe on saturday . 
romario , who led the brazilian national eleven to its $number world cup victory , edged swiss cyclist tony rominger who twice smashed the world record this yer . 
russian swimmer alexander popov placed $number and he was followed by american sprinter , world record holder leroy burrell in $number place . 
another american athlete , world number one tennis player pete sampras ranked $number . 
shanghai economic engine to bet on high - tech 
shanghai , china 's largest industrial city , will launch sino - overseas joint scientific research institutions on a trial basis $date in an effort to make it the country 's " locomotive " of economic growth . 
hua yuda , director - general of the shanghai municipal science and technology commission , said that this is one of the measures the city will take to give the city 's fast economic development a more powerful backing . 
" shanghai 's research institutes will improve cooperation and exchanges with their counterparts in the united states , japan and countries in europe in basic research and high - tech development , " hua said . 
he added that , " without cooperation and exchange , it is impossible for the city 's research centers to reach the forefront of scientific progress in the international arena . " 
efforts will be made to accelerate the development of the computer industry so as to modernize the city 's financial sector and make office work more automated , the official noted . 
according to him , the municipal government has made lifting the industry 's total output to $number yuan ( $number u.s. dollars ) a goal in the new year , which would be up $number yuan from $number . 
hua said that priority will also be given to developing a modern bio - medical industry in the city , adding that a number of pharmaceutical plants manufacturing synthetic medicines , tonics and pesticides will be built in three high - tech zones . 
total output of the city 's biological and medical industry is expected to top $number yuan ( $number u.s. dollars ) this year , $number yuan ( $number dollars ) more than last year . 
hua said that the $number high - tech enterprises in the city 's five development zones are expected to register a combined output of $number yuan ( $number dollars ) $date , $number yuan more than in the whole of $number . 
$number of them will be singled out to pursue larger - scale management practices , with at least $number of the them expected to report sales of $number yuan each , the official said . 
to achieve the goals , hua said , shanghai must optimize its scientific and technological structure and create a better social environment for scientific progress . 
statistics show that , overall , high - tech industry generated some $number yuan ( $number dollars ) $date , $number of the city 's total industrial output that year . 
the proportion is expected to climb to $number $date , hua said . 
swedish team retains spengler cup 
swedish farjestad retained their crown on saturday after beating host team davos of switzerland $number in the final of the spengler cup ice hockey tournament in davos , switzerland . 
all three goals came in the last eight minutes , two from jonas hogland and one from andreas johansson in front of a packed stadium of $number spectators . 
the outcome was almost a carbon copy of last year when farjestad took the title with a $number win over davos becoming then $number swedish team to win the tournament . 
team canada secured $number place in the tournament after a disastrous start which saw them lose their $number two games . 
the canadians however struggled to defeat the finnish team ifk helsinki $number followed by a $number win over russia 's traktor chelyabinsk on friday . 
french yachtwoman rescued to safety 
solo french yachtswoman isabelle autissier was rescued by the australian maritime safety authority (amsa) after drifting for four days in frigid seas . 
a sporksman for the amsa said that autissier was safe and in good health . 
autissier had been taken aboard the australian navy frigate darwin and would be taken to adelaide . 
the $number - year - old autissier was heading for sydney in $number leg of the boc round - the - world solo yacht challenge as her boat ran into rough weather in the perilous area $number miles ( $number , $number ) south of adelaide on wednesday . 
the amsa spokesman said autissier was undergoing preliminary medical checks and would be taken to hospital for further checks . 
chechen settlement main $number task , yeltsin says 
russian president boris yeltsin said today that bringing an end to the crisis in the breakaway republic of chechnya is his most important task for $number . 
in a new year message to the nation released tonight , yeltsin said : " the most important task for me next year is to restore peace and normal life in the chechen republic , north ossetia and ingushetia . " 
the russian president also had a message for russians living outside russia in other countries of the commonwealth of independent states and the baltic states . 
" dear compatriots , we remember you , and are doing and will do everything possible to enforce your legitimate rights and interests , " yeltsin said . 
dudayev flees flaming headquarters for bunker 
president dhzokhar dudayev 's headquarters in the presidential palace of the breakaway republic of chechnya and several other buildings in the center of the chechen capital of grozny are now in flames , the itar - tass news agency reported today . 
the fire was caused when the buildings were attacked by russian forces , the news agency said , adding that armed units loyal to dudayev are believed to be occupying the buildings . 
itar - tass quoted sources close to dudayev as saying that he has now taken cover in an underground bunker , along with a group of deputies from the state duma ( the lower house of the russian parliament ) who arrived in the besieged capital on friday for a firsthand look at the situation . 
results at st. silvester race 
following are the results at the $number annual year - end st. silvester $number - kilometer race in sao paulo , brazil , on saturday : women 's division : $number . 
derartu tulu , ethiopia , $time , $time $number . 
helen kimaiyo , kenya , $number $number . 
maria del carmen dias mancilla , mexico , $number $number . 
catherine kirui , kenya , $number $number . 
rosa munerotto , italy , $number $number . 
silvana pereira , brazil , $number $number . 
viviany oliveira , brazil , $number $number . 
manuela machado , portugal , $number $number . 
karen mcleod , scotland , $number $number . 
solange cordeiro de souza , brazil , $number men 's division : $number . 
ronaldo costa , brazil , $time , $time $number . 
silvio guerra , ecuador , $number $number . 
german silva , mexico , $number $number . 
vanderlei cordeiro de lima , brazil , $number $number . 
addis abebe , ethiopia , $number $number . 
adalberto batista garcia , brazil , $number $number . 
valdenor dos santos , brazil , $number $number . 
william mutwol , kenya , $number $number . 
ondoro osoro , kenya , $number $number . 
arturo barrios , united states , $number 
service sector climbs to top in south china province 
a recent survey shows that the service sector has turned out to be the largest contributor to incomes for southern china 's booming guangdong province . 
according to a provincial survey , part of the national survey on the service industry , the sector provided the lion 's share of output value in the province $date , which topped $number yuan , accounting for $number percent of the provincial gross domestic product (gdp) . 
agriculture was the mainstay of the province 's economy $date . 
following a decade of economic success , the industrial and service sectors have outrun farming and become the economic engine driving the province . 
the survey , which begins with $date shows that the economic structure in the province has taken a sharp upward turn compared with the period of beginning of reforms and opening to outside world . 
$date , industrial production provided $number percent of the total gdp and farming dropped to $number percent , according to the survey . 
there were $number service firms , hiring $number people in such fields as wholesale and retail sales , food service , transportation , storage , post and telecommunications , finance , and insurance . 
the survey shows , however , that what surged the fastest were such fields as investments , securities brokering and trading , real estate , information and consulting , and computer applications , where the growth rate ranged from $number percent to $number percent compared with $number . 
these new service sectors have not only had an impact on the convenience of life , but have become new economic growth areas in guangdong , experts say . 
the number of people engaged in the service sector was $number times that of $number and accounted for $number percent of the total number of employees in the province . 
the number of employees in the service industry grew faster than in industrial sectors . 
meanwhile the number of people engaged in farming plummeted from $number percent of the total number of employees to $number percent . 
the survey shows that the service industry grew the fastest in coastal urban areas while development in the interior and northern mountain areas of the province remained relatively slow . 
results at durham iaaf cross - country meet 
following are the results from the iaaf world cross challenge cross - country meet in durham , england , on saturday : men 's $number kilometers : $number . 
ismael kirui , kenya , $time , $time $number . 
andrew pearson , britain , $number $number . 
salah hissou , morocco , $number $number . 
paul evans , britain , $number $number . 
philemon hanneck , zimbabwe , $number $number . 
gary staines , britain , $number $number . 
brad barquist , united states , $number $number . 
john treacy , ireland , $number $number . 
justin hobbs , britain , $number $number . 
spencer barden , britain , $number standings after three races : $number . 
james kariuki , kenya , $number points $number . 
evans , $number $number . 
jaoa junqueira , portugal , $number $number . 
umberto pusterla , italy , $number $number ( tie ) . 
fita bayesa , ethiopia , shem kororia , kenya , corma finnerty , ireland , and kirui , $number $number . 
pearson and paul guerra , portugal , $number women 's $number kilometers : $number . 
rose cheruiyot , kenya , $time $number . 
catherina mckiernan , ireland , $time $number . 
paula radcliffe , britain , $time $number . 
sonia o ' sullivan , ireland , $time $number . 
veronique collard , belgium , $time $number . 
louise watson , britain , $time $number . 
alison wyeth , britain , $time $number . 
helen titterington , britain , $time $number . 
vikki mcpherson , britain , $time $number . 
geraldine hendricken , ireland , $time standings after three races : $number . 
mckiernan , $number $number . 
cheruiyot , $number $number . 
margareta keszeg , romania , $number $number . 
collard , $number $number ( tie ) . 
fernanda ribeiro , portugal , deratu tulu , ethiopia , and joyce koech , kenya , $number $number . 
stef statkuviene , lithuania , $number $number . 
flavia gaviglio , italy , $number $number . 
radcliffe , $number 
kenyan girl wins world cross country chanllenge 
kenyan rose cheruiyot won the durham iaaf world cross country challenge meet by pulling away early and cruising to a runaway victory saturday in durham , england . 
cheruiyot , a $number - year - old girl who was $number placed at the $number world junior cross - country championships , took the lead for good midway through $number lap on a muddy , $number - kilometer course to win in $time , $time . 
only european cross - country champion catherina mckiernan of ireland and british former world junior champion paula radcliffe could stay within striking range of cheruiyot , but neither was able to make up a lead that had grown to $time by $number of five laps . 
mckiernan finished $number in $time , with radcliffe $number in $time . 
another pre - race favorite , european $number - meter track champion sonia o ' sullivan finished $number in $time . 
the two chinese contenders , wang xiujie and zhan jianying , fell out of contention during $number lap and finished well off the lead . 
wang was $number in $time , zhan finished $number in $number . 
both came here bidding for a place on the chinese team for the world championships on $date . 
mckiernan 's finish was good enough to keep her in $number place in the world cross challenge standings with $number points in three races . 
cheruiyot moved $number with $number points . 
in the men 's race over $number competition , world $number - meter champion ismael kirui of kenya made the day a clean sweep for his country in $number . 
kirui , the iaaf cross challenge champion $date $number , finished $number ahead of britain 's andrew pearson , who outsprinted moroccan salah hissou for $number . 
james kariuki of kenya , who did not compete saturday , retained $number place in the men 's overall standings with $number points . 
china 's largest civil aviation building under construction 
construction over the largest civil aviation booking office building in china started last friday in the pudong new area of shanghai . 
involving a total investment of $number u.s. dollars , the $number - meter - high building , with a construction area of $number sq m , was co - funded by shanghai hongqiao international airport , beijing capital international airport and the dynasty group of hong kong . 
standing between the hongqiao airport and the pudong airport which are now under construction , the building will provide various services to passengers . 
brazilian , ethiopian win st. silvester race 
ronaldo costa of brazil and derartu tulu of ethiopia won the men 's and women 's titles respectively at the year - end st. silvester race in sao paulo on saturday . 
costa took the men 's title of the $number kilometers race , beating a field of some $number . 
earlier derartu tulu beat defending champion helen kimaiyo of kenya by $time saturday to win women 's division . 
the $number - year - old tulu completed the distance in $time , $time . 
the race , inaugurated $date , is named after st. silvester , the roman catholic saint whose feast day is celebrated $date . 
malaysian pm reminds countrymen of productivity 
prime minister mahathir mohamad today urged malaysians to lower production costs instead of demanding higher wages in their continuous effort to combat inflation pressures . 
in his new year message , mahathir said the government 's move to control inflation would be meaningless if the workers demand for additional wages without increasing their productivity . 
" wages should increase with economic growth but not at the same level if we are to avoid inflation , " he noted . 
a trading country like malaysia would not be able to compete in the world market if its products became costly , he said , adding that if this happens , investments would be less and unemployment would not change for better . 
" this was what caused the european countries to have unemployment rate of between $number and $number percent . 
their wages were too high and they were not willing to reduce them , " he said . 
malaysia has experienced stable high gdp growth of an average $number plus $date , with inflation contained under $number , a success commended worldwide . 
backed by the manufacturing sector and growing domestic and foreign investment , malaysia was ranked $number largest exporter in the world $date with its trade volume exceeding $number us dollars $date . 
per - capita income in malaysia rose to $number us dollars $date . 
in the words of deputy prime minister and finance minister anwar ibrahim , it was parallel to $number us dollars in purchasing power parity terms . 
italian newspaper picks best athletes of $number 
leroy burrell and manuela di centa was picked as the best athletes of $number by italy 's largest sports daily gazzetta dello sport of milan . 
american sprinter burrell , who set a world record of $number seconds in the $number - meter dash , led the men 's lists with $number points . 
alexandr popov , a russian swimmer , edged spanish cyclist miguel indurain for $number place at $number points . 
ski cross country ace manuela di centa of italy beat other contenders to top the women 's list . 
di centa , who won five medals in the women 's cross country in the winter olympic games at lillehammer , received $number points . 
another cross country skier , russian ljubov yegorova , placed $number with $number points , followed by german swimmer franziska van almisck in $number place . 
brazil 's national eleven was chosen the best team of the year , beating the u.s. basketball quintet to $number place in standings . 
the brazilian team , which took the soccer world cup for the unprecedented $number time , dominated the teams ' standings with $number points . 
the u.s. basketball team , the famous dream team ii which took the world title $date , got $number points . 
earthwinds balloon grounded hours after liftoff 
the earthwinds hilton balloon was forced to the ground in mid - flight just hours after liftoff from nevada for $number non - stop manned balloon flight around the world . 
the $number - foot - tall balloon was forced out of the sky due to a sudden loss of air pressure , according to reports . 
the balloon and its three crew members touched down in a remote part of the nevada desert at about $time , $number miles east of the reno , nevada , airstrip where it was launched at $number a . m . local time . 
the giant balloon 's three crew members were unsure what caused the sudden loss of air pressure in the lower balloon , project spokeswoman pat godefroy said . 
the earthwinds hilton consists of a $number - foot helium gas bag , a cramped , crew compartment below that and a $number - foot , air - filled lower anchor balloon on the bottom to stabilize altitude . 
the cramped crew compartment was installed with an array of scientific instruments . 
captain larry newman , $number , co - captains dave melton , $number , and george saad , $number , were expected conduct experiments on conditions at the lower edge of the stratosphere during the flight . 
the earthwinds team have made several attempts over the last two years to complete the aviation history - making flight that would take $number days at $number feet up in the jet stream . 
on $number try in $date in ohio , the balloon remained earthbound because of brisk winds . 
the earthwinds requires extremely calm weather while inflating its $number - foot upper helium balloon , a lower balloon is filled with air for ballast . 
in $date , the crew had their closest call with disaster when the balloon brushed a mountain peak and fell onto a snowy hill shortly after takeoff . 
another launch attempt failed in $date when an anchor bolt snapped as the balloon was being inflated . 
on $number try , a flight was aborted $date , after $number miles and $time because a key valve froze and its finger - thin control shaft snapped . enditem $number / $number $time gmt nnnn 
clinton urges congress to cooperate in new year 
u.s. president bill clinton today urged the republican - dominated congress that convenes next week to " put aside partisan differences " and " help america prosper " . 
in his weekly radio address , clinton asked the new republican majorities in the senate and the house to join him in making a new year 's resolution to face challenges together . 
" $number and foremost , we should do nothing to jeopardize the economic recovery we have helped to create over the last two years , " clinton said . 
he asked republicans to join him to " do everything we can to help america prosper ; to reduce yesterday 's government , but help government stay on the side of america 's families . " 
